Sharat Chandra: So it is a try and look at what all things we have been done.
Sharat Chandra: So as part of our journey we learned that we have to follow Chris DM or the latest one is Chris and mal que methodology, let me write crisper and Q amp D.
Sharat Chandra: And as part of this process management methodology six phases or six steps are there.
Sharat Chandra: And the first one is business and data understand that.
Sharat Chandra: This is more about gathering requirements and doing the planning.
Sharat Chandra: So here we have.
Sharat Chandra: planning.
Sharat Chandra: Gathering planning and researching this.
Sharat Chandra: posters, we learned about data pre processing.
Sharat Chandra: This is where we try to clean the data modify the data, if required, so we are we're basically doing a lot of manipulation syrup with respect to the data that we get and had.
Sharat Chandra: This is the most time consuming step.
Sharat Chandra: That.
Sharat Chandra: time consuming step.
Sharat Chandra: After data processing.
Sharat Chandra: We come to data mining steps.
Sharat Chandra: And this is where we are actually currently working with operating.
Sharat Chandra: Under data mining, we learned that there are unsupervised learning.
Sharat Chandra: Here we are not trying to do predict right.
Sharat Chandra: There is nothing like predicting any specific variable, so we will say bye is not known.
Sharat Chandra: This is not.
Sharat Chandra: So if I don't have labeled the data, then, are not be trying to work for that labeled data right, it is all about identifying the hidden pattern, the date.
Sharat Chandra: And then we can do supervised.
Sharat Chandra: But before I talk about supervised learning, we also analyze that whenever we get the data we start with you need a period analysis.
Sharat Chandra: In order to understand the data and understand the details matter we try to look at uni variance analysis one variable at a time, and we do add on top of that, and by visualization.
Sharat Chandra: graphical representations.
Sharat Chandra: Post this we go to by various visualization.
Sharat Chandra: This is where we talked about two variables, taken together, will try to visualize it using scattered back.
Sharat Chandra: or try to identify the Cross table.
Sharat Chandra: Right confusion matrix kind of a thing we will get a pivot table.
Sharat Chandra: Then we have multivariate analysis.
Sharat Chandra: So while while we were doing these things.
Sharat Chandra: That we learned about various techniques, for example, all the unsupervised learning techniques are basically the techniques for doing the analysis in multi variable case.
Sharat Chandra: So clustering dimension deductions and all those concepts that we discussed association rules for all of them are for falling under you need a nexus.
Sharat Chandra: Post this.
Sharat Chandra: Right post, the analysis, we will also want to identify or predict the results and that's where we basically talked about supervised learning, and here we are saying label to data is there, so that is why he is known.
Sharat Chandra: Because I know what is the result, try to establish the relationship between the existing factors and.
Sharat Chandra: Dubai.
Sharat Chandra: Right now under this scenario.
Sharat Chandra: If I have to predict why, which is numeric.
Sharat Chandra: Then we apply something called as regression techniques, and this is what we have to start learning.
Sharat Chandra: If I is non human.
Sharat Chandra: If I is non numeric then we look into classification.
Sharat Chandra: Classification techniques to a numeric non numeric regression or classification.
Sharat Chandra: Under classification techniques, we learned about.
Sharat Chandra: knife based technique which runs on probability based concepts conditional probability, then we looked at K N, which stands on the distance logic nearest neighbor and then we discussed about decision to this.
Sharat Chandra: This is a rules based concepts.
Sharat Chandra: We also talked about.
Sharat Chandra: The complex models of n simple techniques.
Sharat Chandra: That we looked at and several techniques, this is nothing but a combination of multiple models and in and sample techniques.
Sharat Chandra: In and simple techniques, we looked at.
Sharat Chandra: four different variations.
Sharat Chandra: Voting.
Sharat Chandra: stacking.
Sharat Chandra: three models bagging.
Sharat Chandra: And finally, we had boosted.
Sharat Chandra: Voting and starting can be non three more based models as well.
Rachana Kumbha: Sir, sir.
Rachana Kumbha: yeah so even like I was like looking at the fedex data set so like you know we were asked to give you know evaluate or use the data set on different models and like.
Rachana Kumbha: Tell like whichever model is having the highest accuracy like we can deploy that model so yeah like we can like use separately can and knife base and all or we can do, stalking as well, no so like if you're just stalking obviously the accuracy will be much more than the individual.
Sharat Chandra: No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Sharat Chandra: How can you say that stacking will improve the molecules.
Sharat Chandra: Logically, should be but let's say if I have model, one model to model three.
three models are there.
Sharat Chandra: Which are individually predicting on your fedex.
Rachana Kumbha: OK OK.
Sharat Chandra: So this will give me reserved one, this will give me reserve to this is giving me reserve.
Sharat Chandra: Now, what we are trying to find out is the value of our variable of our interest correct.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, so as you.
Sharat Chandra: This model, one is giving very good result that is a very good, it is very close to the actual data.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, but these two are not so good they're deviating from the original.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, now, when you apply Meta modern final model.
Sharat Chandra: they're basically taking these as inputs and trying to predict why.
Sharat Chandra: The final result.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: But because these two results are two and three are very, very deviating from the original data when you do average this good result will also be pulled away.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes okay so.
Sharat Chandra: This challenge will always be there when you're doing.
Sharat Chandra: your thoughts are on that that is the reason why we evaluate individual models also.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: And then we compare it with a final assemble model.
Rachana Kumbha: So what if we need to do the individual products check individually and again to stalking also and then, once again verified.
Yes.
Rachana Kumbha: i've seen.
Rachana Kumbha: And like so it's like the problem statement is like are not correctly precisely what do you want is not like correctly given so it's like can we do like our own stuff like we can also have network analytics right because it's like source.
Sharat Chandra: In this.
Rachana Kumbha: nation is there, so we can do that.
We can.
Sharat Chandra: yeah he's a logic.
Sharat Chandra: The logic of fedex data set right given as a project is for you people to do many things.
Sharat Chandra: So many things you have to also do business understanding.
Sharat Chandra: Yes.
Rachana Kumbha: misunderstanding So yes, so i've created a separate document so it's like i've written the what they call the objective like minimize maximize constraint, then prepare the data dictionary.
Rachana Kumbha: Then, after that it's like like I thought i'd write, like every pre processing steps like why i'm doing it in the document so that it is clear, like every like data mining and also have just prepare that document.
Rachana Kumbha: says Oh, I thought i'll go through it.
Sharat Chandra: yeah see.
Sharat Chandra: There is no standard logic, I mean I need, but as a data scientist.
Sharat Chandra: You have free will basically in any organization as a data scientist, if you are hired right, you have a free will to look into all the aspects of the business and identify into the areas where there is a problem.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, so it's like yes so.
Sharat Chandra: look good good.
Rachana Kumbha: is essentially a good objective so, is it sufficient if we can just try to minimize and maximise like what do you want to minimize and what do you want to maximize because you said, like octave optimize terminology should be there should be like very short.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, it is, it is see it is not mandatory, that you have to have them, it is recommended that you need to.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, but it's like we don't have to give elaborate view of the objective right it's just that was.
Sharat Chandra: Not an objective is short crisp and optimization terminologies are recommended.
Sharat Chandra: Okay right, you might also want to explain what exactly you're trying to achieve.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, does this right a statement for.
Sharat Chandra: evaluator as a viewer if I see that statement.
Sharat Chandra: I may not be able to understand what what you're trying to do.
Sharat Chandra: Because I have not researched on the data right.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, you.
Sharat Chandra: have to give an explanation also so.
Sharat Chandra: That it is clear for the person who's reading.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, so what exactly i'm doing on the data like beat anything that work at analytics or you know distance and delay relation whatever we're planning to do, I can just put it in that document.
Rachana Kumbha: So just explain.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, yes, yes intimately you have to.
Sharat Chandra: give some insights to the business or the management.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, they can do better was.
Sharat Chandra: Okay last thing can be done dimension reduction can be done, like you said network analytics can be done.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, right and then classification models are there.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, okay.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay okay so okay so.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so we're talking about this classification models and here we have voting stacking bagging and staying.
Sharat Chandra: right here under bagging again we discussed about.
Sharat Chandra: Something.
Sharat Chandra: Which is very, very.
Sharat Chandra: efficient way to build things which is random forest.
Sharat Chandra: The difference here is, we will take a sample data which is.
Sharat Chandra: smiling bike capital m, this is your sample data for batty but for random forest, we will take subset of features as.
Sharat Chandra: Good that's the difference.
Sharat Chandra: Okay bad, there are no for us, this one variant of.
Sharat Chandra: Then we'll talk about boosting.
Sharat Chandra: Under boosting we have.
Sharat Chandra: Added boosting.
Sharat Chandra: Then gradient descent and gradient boosting and then we have extreme gradient boosting and these models.
Sharat Chandra: That try to minimize the error.
Sharat Chandra: By taking the models sequences by training the model sequence.
Sharat Chandra: Here we take multiple sub samples and do training parallel.
Sharat Chandra: that's the difference between boosting and bagging techniques.
Sharat Chandra: So this is what we discussed Taylor.
Sharat Chandra: Now, if I talk about.
Sharat Chandra: Right being numeric piece.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, why is numeric.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the case.
Sharat Chandra: Then.
Sharat Chandra: We will try to go with something called as regression.
Sharat Chandra: But before I go ahead and deal with regression models, you need to try and understand certain things that that we discussed in the initials.
Sharat Chandra: So when I say why numeric.
Sharat Chandra: Why can be continuous or discrete okay numeric data can be continuous our district, we will now stick to the continuous case okay.
Sharat Chandra: If I is continuous.
Sharat Chandra: Then there are certain properties you remember this properties.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, so I think it is mobility should be equal to zero always range will be like between minus infinity plus infinity.
Rachana Kumbha: And I think he area undercover will be equal to one and.
Something.
Sharat Chandra: yeah this is.
Rachana Kumbha: This mean mean median and mode or equal.
Sharat Chandra: know that is when you have submitted the curves and.
Rachana Kumbha: All that that is normal distribution okay.
Sharat Chandra: we're only talking about continuous case.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay okay So yes.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, of course, normal distribution and all that are our.
Sharat Chandra: Next steps.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so if I have output variable y which is continuous in nature.
Sharat Chandra: Then, these are the important properties that we have to remember minus infinity plus infinity probability of identifying any single number is always being equal, to zero and area under the curve is always equal to one.
Sharat Chandra: click now.
Sharat Chandra: let's say, am I asking you to predict something when something.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, for example, months.
Sharat Chandra: In the classification scenario we identified whether the student will pass or.
Sharat Chandra: fail.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, good I didn't define whether the student will be passing or failing, so this is non numeric it.
Sharat Chandra: will apply classification model.
Sharat Chandra: But here we are talking about identifying the exact marks which is numerical.
Sharat Chandra: Now, if you apply a model and try to predict that so you're predicting okay whenever.
Sharat Chandra: you're saying for a student the marks will be let's say 85% that the student is getting 85% marks.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the case.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: I mean if you're predicting.
Sharat Chandra: What is the chance that the student is actually getting a defect marks.
yeah.
Sharat Chandra: What is the chance that the student is actually getting 85%.
Sharat Chandra: anyway.
Sharat Chandra: let's say i'm predicting the marks for you.
Sharat Chandra: i'm saying that you will get a difference, what is the chance that you will actually getting a difference.
Rachana Kumbha: If you don't know the student and probably percentage is anything out of hundred right so 285 is only a one number.
Rachana Kumbha: If you are taking in terms of decimal points like 85 point, probably to be one by infinity which is like we cannot predict zero but.
Rachana Kumbha: If you are considering it as though yes.
Sharat Chandra: We are talking about marks which is.
Rachana Kumbha: Continuous, then it is zero so.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly, then it is you know, the chances zero, then why the hell i'm doing prediction if I know that the student is not going to get 85%.
Sharat Chandra: That means whatever i'm predicting is wrong isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: These are the properties right for continuous data, these are the properties and and trying to predict the value, which is continue as and we are saying that the chance of the value zero.
Sharat Chandra: Then the prediction.
Rachana Kumbha: If you have historical data in the historical data like we can see that the student has like previously got like a lot of 85% ages, then we can try it in that way.
Sharat Chandra: But we are dealing with.
Sharat Chandra: population data here we're not dealing with.
Sharat Chandra: subset of data if it is a subset of data, then it becomes discrete, it is not continuous anymore, yes.
Sharat Chandra: There are fixed values right So if you have hundred samples and hundred records that means you know exactly what is the value, so it becomes discrete if discrete there is no problem, we can do the right prediction classification models have been taught.
Sharat Chandra: That understanding, where i'm going here.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes.
Sharat Chandra: So for a continuous data.
Sharat Chandra: How can I predict a single number.
Sharat Chandra: Right, because we are seeing the probability of a single number exit identify a single number on this infinity scale is zero.
Sharat Chandra: So how do I deal with it the continuous Dudes that that is all about this logic that were trying to understand, yet scholars confidence interval.
Sharat Chandra: So, to start with continuous data, these are the three important properties that we discussed right area is equal to one property of a single number is equal to zero, and the range lies from minus infinity plus infinity if I extend this that Okay, these are.
Sharat Chandra: The data is actually normal.
Sharat Chandra: I mean.
Sharat Chandra: they're not assuming that there is any abnormalities then it also has these two properties mean median equal to more.
Sharat Chandra: And then area is symmetric the curve asymmetric right and we also discuss normal distribution properties.
Sharat Chandra: Where the characterization of the bell shaped is done using these two.
Sharat Chandra: Right values, new and Sigma first moment and second.
Sharat Chandra: And we've also discussed about standardization.
Sharat Chandra: X minus meal by Sigma This is basically trying to transform the X values to the values.
Sharat Chandra: That we have we're moving the experiments to see by.
Sharat Chandra: Training.
Sharat Chandra: So these are all things that we have discussed, and of course we've also said that the.
Sharat Chandra: compassion right any data which is.
Sharat Chandra: Continuous has to be assumed that it is normal.
Sharat Chandra: But is it actually normal is verified using normal qq plot.
Sharat Chandra: Right and the Z values and the sample data should have identical distribution similar distribution.
Sharat Chandra: If you do that.
Sharat Chandra: You get a straight line and straight line basically means.
Sharat Chandra: That the days normally is to be dead.
Sharat Chandra: These are all things we discussed right.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, remember.
Sharat Chandra: Okay know.
Sharat Chandra: Why, we are learning all these things, let us try and do a small example of doing prediction first how this prediction book right, so let us do the prediction.
Sharat Chandra: Then we will see the application of that right prediction calculations into another exam.
Sharat Chandra: So here, I want to take a small data set.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, this is the data set so we are looking at the gmat score.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Paramesh Putha: So one note.
Sharat Chandra: Here good good good.
Paramesh Putha: Actually, like therapy on the continuous data you're predicting students marks that the probability of your student getting 85% would be zero like if we have continuous data.
Paramesh Putha: And if we have, like previous historical data like not particularly about the student but till now, some population data like based on the attributes like new record similarity with the old records, we can get the actual day like we can predict the percentage rate.
Sharat Chandra: So that is similarity read it is not prediction.
Paramesh Putha: Okay, like normal machine learning algorithms for a supervised learning like that is what we have done by numeric.
Sharat Chandra: numeric data, we are not seeing.
Paramesh Putha: The regression regression models.
Sharat Chandra: that's what we are going, we have not done that regression model yet.
Oh.
Sharat Chandra: This world on let's let's discuss this here you got to know oh.
Paramesh Putha: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: So let me load the data set.
here.
Sharat Chandra: i'm talking about this specific gmat score state Okay, let me do histogram.
Sharat Chandra: yeah G man, this is the is to go.
Sharat Chandra: Which is histogram.
Sharat Chandra: And the curve is basically left skewed.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Now.
Sharat Chandra: Given this case.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Remember, whatever data, we are working is always.
Sharat Chandra: Given this sample data.
Sharat Chandra: Can I make some strategies and applied for the university for admissions.
Sharat Chandra: And we've already discussed that because of the ship, we can conclude that the students right is left skewed us.
Sharat Chandra: Because of the shape or left skewed behavior, we can clearly say that the examination was fairly easy to see, and that is the reason why we have not have basically people scoring high marks.
Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Now.
Sharat Chandra: Given this case let's say.
Sharat Chandra: You want to come up with strategies for admission.
Sharat Chandra: Get students admission this year.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So each university will have their own strategies for admission right.
Sharat Chandra: Given this data, what What would you basically come up with what is the plan that you will come up for.
Sharat Chandra: Getting the.
Sharat Chandra: I should say.
Sharat Chandra: The admission strategy right, what does the education strategy that.
Sharat Chandra: yeah guess what what strategies, would you want to.
Rachana Kumbha: We can say is the exams over then make it, we can set the cutoff like depending on the market, which we can see my histogram like the peak like where it is a number of candidates, we we want to take for the university, we can set a cut off.
Sharat Chandra: Very good, very good lifted another seats weekend and you have to basically free them up, and there are 773 students who have.
Sharat Chandra: students who have.
Sharat Chandra: Written the exam sample data, this is sample data we have.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, and we also looked into.
Sharat Chandra: What is the minimum, what is the maximum maximum is seven at memon minimal mistakes and you can see that in the X axis good.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so admission.
Sharat Chandra: Then you have certain serendipity students minimum maximum we have mean, and we also have standard deviation as well.
Sharat Chandra: It means is 711 standard deviation is 20.
Sharat Chandra: So, because I know the data we are coming up with all these PICs.
Sharat Chandra: Right now.
Sharat Chandra: If I have to let's say this is one of the universities that you are working as a team, you have to come up with the strategies, then that university will have some standard.
Sharat Chandra: So you not ella every student who has written the exam Center is a qualification well, so all those people qualified for higher education so are there.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: As a university right you don't want everyone to enter into your you could have cut off.
Sharat Chandra: Another question is what will be the cutoff.
Sharat Chandra: get what will be the backup.
Sharat Chandra: How much.
You put us kind of.
Paramesh Putha: Or maybe depending on the top Marco thing by students, like some.
Paramesh Putha: Top 10% or 90% of the students will be alone and.
Sharat Chandra: have to be very specific top 10 or 20.
yeah.
Rachana Kumbha: it's not there, then we can like see like based on the ranking like the top hundred.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly Okay, this is only sample data.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: You have to generalize district.
Sharat Chandra: Okay top 10 top 20 that is good.
Sharat Chandra: That strategy is good.
Sharat Chandra: let's do that.
Sharat Chandra: So, in order to decide see again, we are trying to be specific, with respect to the idea, not with respect to the values right optimization techniques basically talk about the idea being optimized and the best result can be captured.
Sharat Chandra: result will not be fixed it will change, based on the factors that we are considered okay.
Sharat Chandra: So if I say cut off.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Then.
Sharat Chandra: What should be the ideal cutoff for this year.
Sharat Chandra: Right, because the data is from the CSM and the the sample data that we're looking at is for the CSM.
Sharat Chandra: So if I see.
Sharat Chandra: 625 is the cutoff then is this going to be a good quarter.
Sharat Chandra: Because cut off means we are trying to filter out those poorly performed students.
Sharat Chandra: right and as a university, you might have 625 or you might also have six at as your standard.
Sharat Chandra: So seats at.
Sharat Chandra: This no.
Rachana Kumbha: No it's not.
Rachana Kumbha: A very good cut off no Sir, because there are a lot of students who are have done very well.
Rachana Kumbha: And like if the universities are top grade university then.
Rachana Kumbha: The cutoff should be like probability probably higher.
Sharat Chandra: let's say this is the university which isn't top 10 top 10 books okay.
Sharat Chandra: i'm impressed us.
Paramesh Putha: Okay, should we.
Rachana Kumbha: should be higher, because many students have done and.
Sharat Chandra: The question is, if you're putting six APS, the mind.
Sharat Chandra: Then, what is the percentage of the students who are getting eliminated marks.
Sharat Chandra: Fine you're seeing from 600.
Sharat Chandra: To seven ad, this is the range and you're seeing success, it should be the cut of that means anyone who scored greater than six he will be qualified anything, who has less is disqualified very good, but how many people you are going to filter out.
Sharat Chandra: hey What if your graph is like this if you say six at.
Sharat Chandra: don't you eliminate a lot of people.
Sharat Chandra: The 6600, and this is 785.
Sharat Chandra: Difficult examination, so in that key is a lot of students who scored around around about 680 or less so the percentage of the students who get eliminated is going to be very high here.
Sharat Chandra: Right and.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the case.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the case and if I say six at here very, very limited very small number of students are getting filtered.
Sharat Chandra: It means a lot of people are still available.
Sharat Chandra: isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: So you have only limited seats hundred hundred seats are available, so if I to six ad Am I filtering out a good amount of students or not.
Sharat Chandra: Right, I said top.
Sharat Chandra: 10 right Mona Lisa i'm assuming a lot of students are applying.
Sharat Chandra: Right top 10 universities, a lot of people will have.
Sharat Chandra: So the decision from the management has to be checked again every year, based on the distribution of the data.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, if the examination is easy at this is the kind of distribution, you will see in this case the cutoff could be somewhere here if the examination was very difficult, then obviously a lot of students will score less mark so you're cut off should probably be around this way this space.
Sharat Chandra: So that you give majority of the people right the apple logic.
Sharat Chandra: That the logic is you, you allow a lot of students, good quality students to apply for the university.
Sharat Chandra: Now, can you tell me if I choose six at.
Sharat Chandra: How much percentage of students are getting eliminate debt.
Sharat Chandra: So if I have to get back remember area under the curve is one so we're basically saying.
Sharat Chandra: This is the bell curve.
Sharat Chandra: And i'm interested in this area.
Sharat Chandra: Okay i'm interested in this potion.
Sharat Chandra: know how do I calculate area under this curve.
Sharat Chandra: Because remember how do we calculate area.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, how many of you actually remember calculus integrations.
Sharat Chandra: So this is.
Sharat Chandra: This is upper limit 680.
Sharat Chandra: And then I say fix.
Sharat Chandra: This is a representation right.
Sharat Chandra: But the point is, what is the equation, we have the equation given.
Rachana Kumbha: Well, so actually that's what I was thinking.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly and.
Sharat Chandra: Another challenges for every time the data chain.
Sharat Chandra: Is, we have to get the equation again done right this entire area has to be calculated.
Sharat Chandra: So for every small or big change, you will have to do a lot of mathematical calculations and there are so many different right continuous variables and for all of them, you don't have this equation equation was given fine can do that.
Sharat Chandra: So what is the alternative yet what can I do.
Sharat Chandra: So here in order to capture the area under the curve, we will now comes the normal distribution guys, this is the application of normal distribution Center.
Sharat Chandra: We are verifying i'm raising all this.
stock, let me just erase all this.
Sharat Chandra: unwarranted thanks.
Sharat Chandra: Alright, so we're talking about.
Sharat Chandra: Normal distribution.
Sharat Chandra: Why, because this is continuously.
Sharat Chandra: Of course, you know, to verify using normal qq plot or not yeah sooner than that and data is normally distributed to your G man data is normally distributed.
Sharat Chandra: If this is normally distributed.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Then I can try to map it with Z scale.
Sharat Chandra: isn't that means i'm trying to do standardization.
Sharat Chandra: I can do that right.
Sharat Chandra: Normal distribution G man, and then we are talking about standardization.
Sharat Chandra: I can do the standardization, because you might as normal distribution, remember that.
Sharat Chandra: So for every corresponding gmat score.
Sharat Chandra: For every corresponding gmat score, we will have a corresponding value nz.
Sharat Chandra: But this is new and this is new, which is equal to zero, this is 711.
Sharat Chandra: And the standard deviation yet on see we have Sigma as one.
Sharat Chandra: Whereas on G matt the Sigma was 20.
Sharat Chandra: So i'm trying to map like.
Sharat Chandra: We are trying to find out the area under the Belka for six a D.
Sharat Chandra: So what is the corresponding Z value for 686 80 minus newest 711 Sigma is 29 these are standard values we already know data, so we can.
Sharat Chandra: Get yeah can anyone tell me what is this reserve six at minus seven seven by 29 i'm taking the time to.
Sharat Chandra: pick C D minus seven.
Rachana Kumbha: minus 1.06.
Sharat Chandra: degrees.
minus 1.6.
Sharat Chandra: hey so for X value that is Jim add value to succeed if I have to compare that with Z then on Z we have minus 1.6 right, but what is the.
Sharat Chandra: Z is this standard.
Sharat Chandra: which follows normal distribution of course.
Sharat Chandra: Because it is standard.
Sharat Chandra: It has certain property static properties right standard properties.
Sharat Chandra: If it is standard.
Sharat Chandra: Then statisticians right can also do a lot of calculations.
Sharat Chandra: Because it has certain properties doesn't change so.
Sharat Chandra: Using this logic statisticians have calculated.
Sharat Chandra: area under the curve for different different Z values, because why Jesus symmetrical curve at the Center you'll have zero.
Sharat Chandra: So I will be able to calculate the area under the curve this entire area under the curve is one but for a specific value what is it specific value what is it right, so these kind of calculations are already done, and they are stored in something called lessons Z table.
Sharat Chandra: So let us look into the Z table here.
Sharat Chandra: Let me minimize this.
Sharat Chandra: There is excluded it empties Z table remember this is a standard so fixed.
Sharat Chandra: This thing will be.
Sharat Chandra: The table.
Sharat Chandra: We are trying to verify.
Sharat Chandra: But this the table as we discussed is actually carry.
Sharat Chandra: This Bush.
Sharat Chandra: left side portion.
Sharat Chandra: From see.
Sharat Chandra: I could do the calculations.
Sharat Chandra: Because it is standard right.
Sharat Chandra: So using this concept we are trying to now do the calculation for.
60.
Sharat Chandra: Zero minus 1.06 you guys did that calculation, this is the Z table.
Sharat Chandra: happening, the link in the.
Sharat Chandra: chat zoom chat you can just open it it doesn't the website it just search for 316 digit n g.com slash CT but you'll get this.
Sharat Chandra: So when when we look at this.
Sharat Chandra: I will have.
Sharat Chandra: Z values on first corner.
Sharat Chandra: And you can see, the rules each show is speaking about one different Z value.
Sharat Chandra: And the second decimal value this is with respect to first assessment, but the second decimal values are expressed in barrels.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so we need minus.
Sharat Chandra: 1.06 so how minus one yet.
Sharat Chandra: minus 1.0 and 06.
Sharat Chandra: that's that's what we're trying to get.
Sharat Chandra: So minus one is here.
Sharat Chandra: And the second step disabled 06 right bring them together.
Sharat Chandra: I get 0.1446 if I multiply this with hundred i'll get 14.46%.
Sharat Chandra: Now, from a university perspective if you are applying cutoff.
Sharat Chandra: Are you willing to lose.
say.
Sharat Chandra: Are you willing to lose 15% of the students.
Sharat Chandra: That that's The point of this.
Sharat Chandra: they're trying to see if you can lose 15% of the students.
Sharat Chandra: If you if your management says no 15% is very big number I don't want to do so many people.
Sharat Chandra: Then, probably, you might want to reduce the society to a smaller value 60 or 70 years 75 whatever that is.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So if I say 660.
Sharat Chandra: yeah can you guys tell me.
Sharat Chandra: What will be the percentage of students who get filtered out if you choose the math to be less than 665 let's say 660 yeah because the minimum oxen 600, so I would try to see if it is 665.
Sharat Chandra: yep, then what is the percentage of students, that we are using yeah.
Sharat Chandra: Do the calculation of.
Rachana Kumbha: 10 minus 1.58 so we have to check for like minus 1.5.
Rachana Kumbha: And the minus 1.5 and it so.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes.
Rachana Kumbha: So it's these 7.1% is it.
Sharat Chandra: Is a.
Rachana Kumbha: high point sorry 5.5 point 7%.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, to side with did everyone get minus 1.58 as a calculation for Z.
Sharat Chandra: So we were basically having X from this X we're trying to calculate Z.
Sharat Chandra: How by using the formula X minus MU by Sigma I already mentioned newest to 11 Sigma is 29.
Sharat Chandra: yeah did everyone get the same result minus 1.58.
Sharat Chandra: If yes, then good.
Sharat Chandra: After this, we are looking at.
Sharat Chandra: The table.
Sharat Chandra: And we try to find out the value, which is right falling on that specific ad.
Rachana Kumbha: 05717 to 11 you have written.
Rachana Kumbha: It was 711.
Sharat Chandra: yeah okay so remember seven.
Sharat Chandra: yeah if this is the case.
Sharat Chandra: Then the area for this particular program is.
Sharat Chandra: 5.71 percentage.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so you're you're basically looking at a scenario where using the Z table standardization formula we are trying to assess the area under the curve and what we're saying is gmat score is normally distributed That means it will be similar to yours see.
Sharat Chandra: That the assumption right data is distributed normally means it is just like shape of the curve is just like see it may not be exactly the same, but we're saying it as similar.
Sharat Chandra: Given this case, if I have to find out this area, then I tried to map that same value on Z and then i'll calculate this and that is nothing but you are.
Sharat Chandra: clear to everyone.
Sharat Chandra: Any questions.
Sharat Chandra: Now.
Sharat Chandra: yeah no go ahead.
NOOR ELAHI: Of.
NOOR ELAHI: The curve is the constant function, no, no, no.
NOOR ELAHI: No.
Sharat Chandra: Come again.
NOOR ELAHI: Hello.
Sharat Chandra: Hello.
Sharat Chandra: I can hear you.
repeat.
NOOR ELAHI: Yes.
NOOR ELAHI: Sir, I just said, you know you got a question of this curve is the cost function like.
NOOR ELAHI: So one thing I would like you said before that the one thing I would like to know the significance of negative geez energy value.
NOOR ELAHI: Or the positive value So can I interpret the the general things because somewhere in the G value is summer i'll get the positivity value and summer i'll get the negatives so.
Sharat Chandra: there's nothing specific to interpret this is zero.
Sharat Chandra: ne ne zero.
Sharat Chandra: The values are spread across the sea table.
NOOR ELAHI: Because i've actually or how can I say that, as you said, there is a lefty skew the data that the concentration of data is you know concentrated towards the right side it's left to school, yes, because the.
NOOR ELAHI: mean as influential.
Sharat Chandra: Know loads loads and loads of things.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, but, but I see that.
Sharat Chandra: The Z de mar data is not normal did I say that, or what was the discussion that we were having.
Sharat Chandra: dinner, assuming that decision.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So, if it is normal, we don't consider this kunis and all that we are assuming that everything is like a bell shaped curve.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, practically.
Sharat Chandra: Practically.
Sharat Chandra: Even though G matt is showing a little kunis like this.
Sharat Chandra: But when we try to look at or when you try to compare jima data with.
Sharat Chandra: Standard Z value.
Sharat Chandra: Then we find that the line is straight on the normal qq plot.
NOOR ELAHI: Normal keep.
Sharat Chandra: The data scattered in a straight line that means we are assuming it may not be perfectly straight, but overall pattern is a street and.
Sharat Chandra: That means the data is normal.
Sharat Chandra: This thing can be applied the logic that we are doing here right.
Sharat Chandra: we've been very basically we're taking X, then we are trying to calculate the Z, then we are trying to calculate probability using Z table.
Sharat Chandra: All this will be valued only when this is normally distributed, only then I can compare it with see right.
NOOR ELAHI: or.
Sharat Chandra: If it is not normal and there is no point I do the comparison, because obviously this is not normally to skew.
Sharat Chandra: Whereas Z will have a perfect will ship.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
NOOR ELAHI: Thank Thank you.
Sharat Chandra: So we are assuming that data is not but.
Sharat Chandra: Only then we are doing all this.
Sharat Chandra: Now.
Sharat Chandra: I want also to give scholarships.
Sharat Chandra: right as a being if I have to strategize something for admissions I also want to give some offers.
Sharat Chandra: But these offers i'll give to only good performing students because eventually they are going to get into good jobs and they're going to get name to the institution to the university.
Sharat Chandra: So we are we're trying to run offered scholarships, based on the performance.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Another question.
Rachana Kumbha: Can we consider like person tied in this case of scholarship like 90 percentile students who scored on 90 percentile or something like that.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, yes, yes, that is what we are doing.
Rachana Kumbha: OK OK.
Sharat Chandra: So Vanessa six at.
Sharat Chandra: It is actually a point that point is percent.
Sharat Chandra: below that you have 15% page.
Rachana Kumbha: OK OK OK, so at.
Sharat Chandra: This point becomes 15%.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, so.
Sharat Chandra: same day, I also want to give scholarship.
Sharat Chandra: only to those students who have secured very good.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So how about.
Sharat Chandra: coming to a conclusion on what value should.
Sharat Chandra: Here we use succeed on the left side.
Sharat Chandra: But on the right side.
Sharat Chandra: Maybe i'll say.
Sharat Chandra: The maximum Marcus 780.
Sharat Chandra: So i'll give.
Sharat Chandra: scholarship to let's save.
Sharat Chandra: Seven 770.
Sharat Chandra: i'm going to tell that all the students will get scholarship if their score greater than 70.
Sharat Chandra: Now, if I declare this, then how many students are going to fall in that section, because all for all of them, I have to give the scholars, will this be a good idea to randomly just declare the scholarship based on them.
Sharat Chandra: Again, because if it isn't easy exam.
Sharat Chandra: lot of students will fall in this area.
Sharat Chandra: Linden.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the GIs then obviously i'm going to go into losses because free educational scholarship right.
Sharat Chandra: If you're declining scholarship then a lot of people are getting into.
Sharat Chandra: This bracket.
Sharat Chandra: isn't it so in this kind of scenario, maybe I want to reduce this reach to a smaller value.
Sharat Chandra: Right So how do we deal with this, can you tell me.
Sharat Chandra: Can you tell me.
Sharat Chandra: What is the.
Sharat Chandra: percentage of students who have actually got marks greater than 70.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
Rachana Kumbha: So for that we need to know, like the data right like the number of students who got what do they call.
Rachana Kumbha: About 770 and on by the total number of students.
Sharat Chandra: Did you get the.
Sharat Chandra: same number of students who got say the much less than 630.
Rachana Kumbha: OK OK OK so i'm going.
Sharat Chandra: To do the calculation.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes, Sir, yes.
Rachana Kumbha: So, so the Z value is 2.03.
Rachana Kumbha: So.
Rachana Kumbha: We need to check for like the percentage of 2.03 for the Z value.
Sharat Chandra: yeah you're absolutely right we'll open it open it.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay okay.
yeah whatever and others.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, good Okay, the bus responded.
Rachana Kumbha: said I got my answer is.
97.8890407 72.38%.
Paramesh Putha: Less than 2% will be people that she.
Sharat Chandra: Very good, yes.
Sharat Chandra: see what we're trying to understand here is greater than service.
Sharat Chandra: So if I have been shaped curve and saying this is 770.
Sharat Chandra: So when you use the seat table always remembers the table does the calculations, so this is lower limit then upper limit and then function of X dx so always it takes the.
Sharat Chandra: left side Bush and oversight for doing the calculations very so try say seven seven D, it is assuming that from here, everything.
Sharat Chandra: read all this data, and when you refer to the table you're getting somewhere around 98% down to the ground, it off.
Sharat Chandra: But i'm not interested in the Left set portion interested in greater than.
Sharat Chandra: data and so that means we're interested in this portion.
Sharat Chandra: The end of the total curve is 100% right.
Sharat Chandra: So we are taking only 2% by removing that 98% of the data.
Sharat Chandra: Good.
Sharat Chandra: Is it clear.
Yes.
Sharat Chandra: So the table is actually referring to the left side portion of Z.
Sharat Chandra: cumulative portion.
Sharat Chandra: So the new look at that we are getting 98.2% 98% if I convert that it is to push.
Sharat Chandra: It off right and shaded push right, I should say area of the curve, where you have red colored lights.
Sharat Chandra: So that means, if I can.
Sharat Chandra: Have a budget.
Sharat Chandra: Then I can decide what will be the cutoff values.
Sharat Chandra: Right in order to get the area and the local and area under the curve, is nothing but your probability or portion.
Sharat Chandra: So this is how Z table is used for to indicate.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, but always remember it is only looking at left side portion of this.
Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Okay now.
Sharat Chandra: Using the standard ization for.
Sharat Chandra: Using this standardization for law to map the X values to see when US and because these standard the calculations are already done for this table using this as a reference, we are trying to evaluate the values for the kind of it.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, these are the conditions that we talked minus 1.06 it is 14% if I have to want.
Sharat Chandra: It and these calculations, if I have higher value than we say greater than value and that's I think what one minus the left side portion gives you the right side push.
Sharat Chandra: But all this is possible only when your data is normally distributed if data is not normal all this doesn't make any sense, so if data is not normal What should we do, or what we do.
Sharat Chandra: yeah if data is not normal.
Sharat Chandra: What we do.
Sharat Chandra: We discuss this long time.
Sharat Chandra: If data is polled that form to be non normal.
Rachana Kumbha: Always normalize the data right.
Sharat Chandra: But what is the process called last.
Rachana Kumbha: normalization or.
Rachana Kumbha: Standardization standardization is continuous.
Sharat Chandra: it's not normalization of standardization.
Rachana Kumbha: As one solution, I think.
Sharat Chandra: i'm summations very.
Sharat Chandra: Good, the answer is transformations.
Sharat Chandra: We transform.
Sharat Chandra: The Non non data to novelty once we get the transform data we do the calculations get the results transform it back to those you know scale and then evaluate or interpret the results.
Sharat Chandra: yeah right, so this is normal qq plot strategy without normality, we cannot proceed for.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so next is very important point we'll discuss that in a moment we'll take shortcuts yeah this time i'll give you more brains, but shorter duration.
Sharat Chandra: So in my watch it's 373 to five minutes break come back with me okay.
Paramesh Putha: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: Everyone.
Sharat Chandra: Alright, so we just discussed on how we do calculation.
Sharat Chandra: To get area under the curve.
Sharat Chandra: This is nothing but the probability.
Sharat Chandra: Now this probability calculations are useful for doing for addiction.
Sharat Chandra: As you can see.
Sharat Chandra: If you have do you mad scores.
Sharat Chandra: Then, what is the chance that the student that I had randomly pick is having.
Sharat Chandra: marks greater than let's say seven but less than 700 right, so this way we can try to use this area logic to calculate probability or prediction.
Sharat Chandra: And this this concept is basically applied for value, which is continuous in nature.
Sharat Chandra: And in order to do this calculation, we look at.
Sharat Chandra: It we are looking at the normal distribution properties why because the value is continues, and if it has continued as it has to be normally distributed, if not we convert that to become not but and once we have normally distributed data in we compare it with Z.
Sharat Chandra: And nz we basically use the table.
Sharat Chandra: we're using the table in order to calculate the area under the curve and if I know the potion.
Sharat Chandra: With respect to the corresponding ziva you have X, then the area under the curve will remain say.
Sharat Chandra: irrevocable remains.
Sharat Chandra: So this this Z table is Alice to actually calculate the probability or area for your random variable X.
Sharat Chandra: So that's normal qq plot for us.
Sharat Chandra: Now.
Sharat Chandra: This is with respect to you need a good analysis Okay, when you have a single variable we tend to do this.
Sharat Chandra: But let's say you have multiple variables and all those those cases are coming.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, and what we're basically saying is when we are trying to do the prediction.
Sharat Chandra: Trying to do the prediction will always work with sample data, this is your inferential statistics concept will never get population data, the 773 students that we work with.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: This is also a sample, this is not population.
Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Now let us assume.
Sharat Chandra: I give you.
Sharat Chandra: Data let's say this is my data okay 123456.
Sharat Chandra: A day.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: When we talk about die, it has six possible outcomes, this has made our number 36 possible.
Sharat Chandra: If you basically let's say.
Sharat Chandra: Roll the dice.
Sharat Chandra: Four times, or three times.
Sharat Chandra: Roll that particular day three types.
Sharat Chandra: Right let's see which now has done the ruling of this day three days.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so this is my sample one randomly you might get one result for each direct and bedroom so give me some three random numbers out of the six assume that you're rolling the dice you got three results right so from that perspective.
Sharat Chandra: Three five and 635613 times.
Sharat Chandra: So you're basically having the results as three, five and one now let's say no, you don't.
notice.
Sharat Chandra: repeating this exercise, you are you're also randomly repeating right, so what might you get.
Sharat Chandra: Give me three numbers.
Sharat Chandra: And it's all good.
NOOR ELAHI: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: Next manali couple you might want to get your own.
Sharat Chandra: Yemen your your experiment results.
Monali s: yeah see see for you guys.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, want to give the same results okay.
Sharat Chandra: it's for.
Sharat Chandra: yeah probably you might want to give them.
neerupa chauhan: A six four and three okay.
Sharat Chandra: 643 random guys don't give it too much of thought.
it's just random output.
Sharat Chandra: yeah so sampling five samples except they cannot so everyone asked me one so just bear with me on that so let's see we have 100 people and i've asked all the hundred people to do this experiment.
Sharat Chandra: For all the hundred people, we will get random visits right, it may baby, or it may be same also lights you don't know.
Sharat Chandra: Each of this role, I experiment is a sample.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Now, on this sample.
Sharat Chandra: We will be doing the calibration.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, now, what is the average of this.
Sharat Chandra: Have it will be three right.
Sharat Chandra: What is the average of this.
Sharat Chandra: 11 by three probably it is 3.6.
Sharat Chandra: This one again three this one.
Sharat Chandra: That team point 3014 four point.
Sharat Chandra: So on so forth i'm getting different results.
Sharat Chandra: What is the average of this actual population data.
Sharat Chandra: yeah what is the other job.
NOOR ELAHI: All right, to bring something.
Sharat Chandra: Different something like 3.5 3.5 average of 123456 is middle value 2.5.
Sharat Chandra: So what i'm trying to explain here is when we do inferential statistics when we're trying to do inferential statistics.
Sharat Chandra: We always work with sample data only but that sample data, maybe.
Sharat Chandra: Your sample data itself might vary.
Sharat Chandra: If you're on the line data various the statistics that you are going to get will also very.
Sharat Chandra: Good.
Sharat Chandra: isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: Then among all these different samples that I have has 100 samples.
Sharat Chandra: Out of all the samples who sample should I choose because I don't know this and i'm trying to calculate it from a business perspective.
Sharat Chandra: Right so, for example.
Sharat Chandra: I want to identify a standard example I want to identify it employee's salary I love this exam.
Sharat Chandra: All the IP employees salary is what I want to identify let's say in India will will limit limit to India.
Sharat Chandra: This is your population return you're interested in finding population parameters.
Sharat Chandra: But, will you get all the employees D is will that be possible.
Sharat Chandra: If I asked me people to do this.
Sharat Chandra: What will you do.
Sharat Chandra: You probably probably try to write conduct this way.
Sharat Chandra: and gather data.
Sharat Chandra: Because you're not have got a right readily available date.
Sharat Chandra: And nobody directly discloses the salary.
Sharat Chandra: So trying to ask some people, and some people may respond some people may not respond.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So gather data.
Sharat Chandra: Now, do you think.
Sharat Chandra: The surveys right the data that let's say de Monte is going to get.
Sharat Chandra: will be the same data that everybody will also get God Murray manali in the report now everybody.
Sharat Chandra: i'd be getting the same data.
Sharat Chandra: Know Dave is doing his own survey he's trying to reach out to his network people right.
Sharat Chandra: Maybe his close associates close friends immediate family members so on so forth we're working in it department, there was going to get information from those people.
Sharat Chandra: hey Similarly, if I talk about let's say permission permissions going to get the same information from this net rockstar is going to get the data from right that that particular network that that she is associated.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: But.
Sharat Chandra: Everybody is going to talk about.
Sharat Chandra: Population parameter.
Sharat Chandra: Linda they're trying to represent inferential statistics means that only right take statistics and then estimated to population.
Sharat Chandra: Now among all your calculations, whose calculation, should I choose.
Sharat Chandra: is no current Dave carrot carrot carrot who's correct.
Sharat Chandra: Everybody is correct, because the logic that knowing is correct.
Sharat Chandra: But because the underlying logic underlying data is changing.
Sharat Chandra: The results are also going to change, so you cannot you cannot basically consider different different results for population parameter the parameters here is always fixed I mean one result or a parameter should be one reason.
Sharat Chandra: But that's not gonna happen because samples are changing.
Sharat Chandra: So, if this is the problem when we are trying to deal with inferential statistics and this problem is called as sampling variations or sample variation.
Sharat Chandra: If this is your population.
Sharat Chandra: As you perform and is assume this is your population.
Sharat Chandra: Whenever we say population we're assuming that we don't know that.
Sharat Chandra: But on this population, I have to calculate view and then for these numbers, the population is 33 because I know the data, you can also do the calculation, the right values will be at the to.
Sharat Chandra: know in order to calculate the population.
Sharat Chandra: If I don't know the population, then we will go first sample data assuming sample sizes to collect the data and then these are all the possible samples that I have.
Sharat Chandra: Not depleting if it has to be known to pretend that these are the samples that I have on each of the samples has equal probability.
Sharat Chandra: you're losing unbiased techniques right.
Sharat Chandra: So each of the sample will have equal opportunity to get select.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: You may end up getting sample one or you may end up getting sample for our sample file or any time.
Sharat Chandra: So if I have all these multiple samples, we may end up going into any of these samples, and for those respective samples the status thing that you are telecommuting he's giving us different different results.
Sharat Chandra: Now, if I don't know population i'll consider it all correct.
Sharat Chandra: But is the mean if I do reverse engineering is this mean 29 equal to 33.
Sharat Chandra: No.
Sharat Chandra: Right or 37 if you say that is also not equal to 33.
Sharat Chandra: So the sample that you are going to work with may or may not give you the exact population.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So to deal with this problem we have something called less central limit theorem.
Sharat Chandra: keep us in the next slide we'll talk about that.
Sharat Chandra: So sampling variations, once again we are talking about samples that we are collecting.
Sharat Chandra: being very they keep changing.
Sharat Chandra: And because we are using the sample data which keeps changing the underlying data may or may not give you the appropriate statistics.
Sharat Chandra: Right, so we may get different different results.
Sharat Chandra: If i'm using unbiased techniques, I may get any of these samples, that means the sample selection is a random.
Sharat Chandra: Random service technically random selection happens.
Sharat Chandra: So, if your sample and the leg sample is getting randomly selected the calculations, will also be and these results that you're seeing are going to be random So if I consider this as my data and.
Sharat Chandra: This become my random variable.
Sharat Chandra: Because the values are random each so it's it's also running.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, one question to you or.
Sharat Chandra: Whatever that we get a calibrations that we're talking about with respect to statistics.
Sharat Chandra: What results, we will get.
Sharat Chandra: If I say mean if I say median median median may not be a parameter.
Sharat Chandra: Since that non parametric case.
Sharat Chandra: So any statistic value that we talked about reasons or.
Sharat Chandra: excuses or courses or right.
Sharat Chandra: This mean.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: I love the data, what is the data type that we are going to.
Sharat Chandra: put all the statistics that we talked about.
Sharat Chandra: What is going to be the data.
Sharat Chandra: descriptor of continuous.
Sharat Chandra: discrete.
Sharat Chandra: Are you sure.
Sharat Chandra: 123456 what is the average you know.
Rachana Kumbha: So when you're taking me in on when you're doing some calculations on some data, there is always chance at the answer will be like in a proper decimal format, so it may be continuous mostly.
Sharat Chandra: It has to be continued.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes, so.
Sharat Chandra: Any statistic that you want to get.
Sharat Chandra: It right, it will always be continuing, that is.
Sharat Chandra: Again, another standard concept that you have to remember.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: it's a bigger type of your statistic is always continues, no.
Sharat Chandra: Not district.
Sharat Chandra: In this example, it is shown with discrete examples.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
yeah.
Sharat Chandra: know.
Sharat Chandra: If this is continuous data.
Sharat Chandra: The statistic that we are talking about is up continuously.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: And we are trying to find out.
Sharat Chandra: One value.
Sharat Chandra: Of this data.
Sharat Chandra: hey.
Sharat Chandra: we're interested in getting one value out of this entire continuous data.
Sharat Chandra: Property i'm in the chance of getting.
Sharat Chandra: That one value.
Sharat Chandra: What does a chance.
Rachana Kumbha: zero.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly.
Sharat Chandra: good chance of getting exactly that one value will be zero.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So, using all these concepts statisticians have thoroughly understood the pattern behavior of this data.
Sharat Chandra: And what they have observed is.
Sharat Chandra: That distribution of the sample status to talk about mania.
Sharat Chandra: The distribution is all with normal.
Sharat Chandra: Okay respective whether it is coming from data which is normal or not.
Sharat Chandra: The results are always going to be normal, or approximately normal.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Now, if it is normal that means your status stick.
Sharat Chandra: which we have to calculate is coming from some data, and we are seeing this data is normally distributed.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, but there's continuous than it estimates.
Sharat Chandra: That means it has certain properties.
Sharat Chandra: As a variable is distributed normally with.
Sharat Chandra: New and Sigma.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: So, considering these concepts, we are basically trying to make some studies here.
Sharat Chandra: If I basically talk about first moment business decision, what is it talking about.
Sharat Chandra: I mean it's nothing but me, but what does mean.
Sharat Chandra: Speak above.
Paramesh Putha: Average.
Sharat Chandra: median or average and what does it.
Rachana Kumbha: Distribution distribution.
Sharat Chandra: mean.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay variance is about distribution.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, yeah I mean is the represent a to value or the characters.
Sharat Chandra: Central tendency exactly.
Sharat Chandra: So it is a representation or.
characteristics.
Sharat Chandra: Right and this data mean is representing about you, which gives some meaningful influence about your entire dataset.
Sharat Chandra: Thank okay so that's that's actually what meaning is all about.
Sharat Chandra: Now, when we are trying to calculate population parameter.
Sharat Chandra: we're trying to calculate population parameter, and these population parameters right is like your.
Sharat Chandra: Fixed reserved for them and fixed pattern.
Sharat Chandra: expected value, but when we are trying to calculate this we are getting status take.
Sharat Chandra: And we get multiple statistics, but each of the statistic was done or calculated in order to get parameter.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So when we speak about.
Sharat Chandra: Identifying the statistics, then we are saying that the value is coming from normally distributed data.
Sharat Chandra: And normally distributed data is.
Sharat Chandra: Having these two properties.
Sharat Chandra: characteristics.
Sharat Chandra: So mean is the representation so for all the possible statistics that we are talking about becomes your random variable now, and this random variable is trying to represent parameter.
Sharat Chandra: Thank you, a sample data is trying to represent.
Sharat Chandra: parameter, so we are looking at.
Sharat Chandra: we're looking at.
Sharat Chandra: Average of average years.
Sharat Chandra: If you do this average of average yes.
Sharat Chandra: This is X bar one this expert to this is expert three so on so forth right if we do average of average us.
Sharat Chandra: This is your expired.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Then we will get population average if I do average of whatever it is, I get new.
Sharat Chandra: Because that's what this entire data is represented, we are interested in getting that only right.
Sharat Chandra: So expired one X bar to so and so forth, if I tried to do that.
Sharat Chandra: Again opposition.
Sharat Chandra: This is the specific property that we have to remember, and this is what central limit theorem is speaking.
Sharat Chandra: mean off means.
Sharat Chandra: This is X bar mean off these expires is basically giving us population mean view.
Sharat Chandra: At the same time standard deviation.
Sharat Chandra: is basically nothing but Sigma by square root of its various basically Sigma squared y en.
Sharat Chandra: Therefore calculations views that ugly variance.
Sharat Chandra: Others, otherwise we cannot deal with the red different summation it becomes a zero.
Sharat Chandra: Right so standard deviation.
Sharat Chandra: X equals two Sigma squared Rudolph and which is the variation in these samples with respect to the Center.
Sharat Chandra: So if I consider this a sample data and then variable.
Sharat Chandra: Then first moment, which is the mean is going to be the mean of these results second moment is the variation among these samples, that is, can split that is calculated by square root of.
Sharat Chandra: Right, so this is basically be.
Sharat Chandra: Calculations for your random variable.
Sharat Chandra: That random variable is nothing but the statistic.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, the big days status it.
Sharat Chandra: Is it making sense for you want.
Sharat Chandra: Any questions, yes.
Sharat Chandra: yeah any questions anyone.
Sharat Chandra: i'm assuming everybody's aware it's understood.
Sharat Chandra: So central limit theorem okay this theater.
Sharat Chandra: is basically coming to a conclusion, saying that the distribution of the sample statistic right the distribution of sample statistics will be not.
Sharat Chandra: Irrespective of whether the data that we are getting the population data that we're getting is normal or not.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So that's basically your central limit theorem and the calculations for the random data that we're talking about is this first moment and second moment.
Sharat Chandra: The second moment is also Congress standard error of me, because we are trying to calculate menier so we sent a standard deviation of me.
Sharat Chandra: is nothing but the difference.
Sharat Chandra: Here, that we are speaking about is the.
Sharat Chandra: difference.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, on an average, what is the edit that descended.
Sharat Chandra: yeah now standard error is nothing but standard deviation on Defense is just that in standard deviation they are looking at individual data.
Sharat Chandra: Basically, looking at X one X two X three so on so forth.
Sharat Chandra: Whereas standard error is the average.
Sharat Chandra: That we have calculated.
Sharat Chandra: This is the red sample me so standard error is talking about variation in these means sample means with respect to.
Sharat Chandra: very, very important central limit theorem studied try to digest it by how to remember it.
Sharat Chandra: Great it's just like to table.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Okay now.
Sharat Chandra: Using this concept will try to implement a logic try to implement concept on not doing inferential statistics.
Sharat Chandra: No.
Sharat Chandra: yeah before that.
Sharat Chandra: What does the probability of today's temperature being 20 degrees.
Sharat Chandra: it's coordinates, at least in hyderabad it is cold.
Sharat Chandra: So if I say to this temperature is 20 degrees, because it is continuous the probabilities equal to zero right.
Sharat Chandra: right because it's a continuous skin temperature is a continuous to finding exactly one value.
Sharat Chandra: Which is 20 degrees is zero.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So how about taking a range, which is minus 5200.
Sharat Chandra: So what what we are basically saying is if this is your continuous access temperature could be.
Sharat Chandra: 20 degrees.
Sharat Chandra: The same temperature could be 20 degrees.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: If it is 20 degrees.
Sharat Chandra: Then getting exactly that value is zero.
Sharat Chandra: But.
Sharat Chandra: I can say that the temperature could be minus 50 degrees 200 degrees.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Can can be temperature tomorrow be between minus 50 degrees 200 degrees.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
Rachana Kumbha: Mobility still be zero, and I said, because it is a continuous can we cannot actually 10 that.
Sharat Chandra: No, no, no that's what we calculated la area under the curve, it is not.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay okay Okay, so you had a another call concept comes up.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly by by because i'm saying minus 5200 degrees.
Rachana Kumbha: Right okay.
Rachana Kumbha: So whenever there's a particular interval only then we can actually use this formula it's like because previously, you have just given up what are they going to value right like if it is about six at that we can qualify them for the exam so.
Sharat Chandra: When you say.
Sharat Chandra: about six add we were basically talking about the range, which is extended to succeed.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay okay.
Sharat Chandra: Oh, there is a range here so area comes into picture.
Sharat Chandra: Okay what's the least value will be take OK OK.
Rachana Kumbha: So it's like wherever only if there's a range specified, only then we can use this particular.
Sharat Chandra: Otherwise, you can discover this.
Sharat Chandra: Know whenever there is a continuous data.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay okay.
Sharat Chandra: Then we look into this range calibration if it is discrete I know that there are probably fixed value.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes, so it's like if they give like on your particular value like you know what is the probability of temperature being 20 degrees then it's like obviously zero but.
Rachana Kumbha: Like when they give a range anywhere if there's a continuous data and there's a range, we can estimate it using confidence interval.
Sharat Chandra: hey yes area under the gun.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes.
Sharat Chandra: But.
Sharat Chandra: Should I say minus 50 degrees 200 degrees tomorrow's temperature can be anywhere between minus 50 degrees 200 things.
Sharat Chandra: Can I say that.
Rachana Kumbha: It is still difficult to estimate monster.
Sharat Chandra: But that is the estimation and telling cheatham you're asking me what was the temperature going to be like, so I am saying that tomorrow it will be between minus 50 degrees 200 tickets.
Sharat Chandra: anyways anywhere in that range, whatever the value that might be, it will be there between minus 50 degrees 200.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, because it is temperature like a via because, obviously, like the temperature may not be like soul, or so high, but.
Rachana Kumbha: it's like if suppose it when you consider the concept of Marks like let's take on demand, so you trade if we can make, even if you say that you may score between at 200 marks also the probability maybe zero like I may not.
Sharat Chandra: Maybe 200.
Sharat Chandra: OK, so my question is now giving the example of marks, I want to predict what marks been stretched now score if I conduct an exam yes.
Sharat Chandra: So I can say she can score anywhere between 02 hundred.
Rachana Kumbha: or 500 is a maximum and zero, and it is obviously between 02.
Rachana Kumbha: yeah so.
Sharat Chandra: i'm trying to predict.
Sharat Chandra: Okay okay you're asking me to predict MC rationale can score marks anywhere between 02 hundred degrees so 100 bucks.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, what is difficult, like like you cannot say that 60 to 80 or 8200, then that will like still the probability will be zero in that case even.
Sharat Chandra: During exactly, but my question again understand the question my question you see you're interested in learning.
Sharat Chandra: You are asking me that if I write an exam now right i'm not sure, no, no i'm asking up but i'm saying that hey tomorrow, I have an exam, can you tell me well how much would I score.
Sharat Chandra: Then, so what is that you're interested in, are you interested in telling me, I mean hearing that the answer could be anywhere between 02 hundred months.
Sharat Chandra: know that is obvious right, you also know it, why do you need to ask anyone.
Yes.
Sharat Chandra: But then when you are asking this you want to get a precise value probably want to hear exact marks at marks you're going to get at marks for sure you want to listen, this number but probability of that single number is always zero if data is continuous.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes okay.
Sharat Chandra: So you cannot give a single number.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: The same time I cannot give the complete range.
Sharat Chandra: right if I say if my my day town lies between zero to one okay my total data lies between 02 right okay.
Sharat Chandra: So, if this is my range.
Sharat Chandra: What will be the area under the curve for this rich.
Okay.
Sharat Chandra: If you under the covers how much.
Rachana Kumbha: one.
Sharat Chandra: Between the 100% obviously I know.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, that record is going to score marks between 02 hundred that is for sure hundred percent.
Rachana Kumbha: He is.
Sharat Chandra: Right, but I want to listen to more practically acceptable results.
Sharat Chandra: So maybe.
Sharat Chandra: I want, if i'm reading I want to hear that the Max could be somewhere between 70 to 80 or 80 to 90 or whatever, that is.
Sharat Chandra: This portion is what you will be interested in.
Yes, yes.
Sharat Chandra: So the chance that you have.
Sharat Chandra: Right to get marks should lie in this range.
Okay.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, I get it so.
Sharat Chandra: The prediction that I am doing to you cannot be having such a wide range, because there is no point doing prediction is that.
Sharat Chandra: it's covering the entire range.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes, so that was my question like minus on it like.
Rachana Kumbha: Obviously, the maximum we between 02 hundred right.
Sharat Chandra: yeah exactly that that's where i'm coming right, so the the prediction that you're trying to do, should be more closer.
Sharat Chandra: To the actual that you.
Sharat Chandra: That means.
Sharat Chandra: That means that you're speaking about should reduce.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, the rain should reduce it should get closer and closer to the single value per parameter.
Sharat Chandra: But now.
Sharat Chandra: If I say.
Sharat Chandra: that's not has a chance of scoring anywhere from 30 to.
Sharat Chandra: 90.
Sharat Chandra: i'm doing the prediction okay.
Sharat Chandra: i'm saying that don't worry about right the exam you'll have a chance of scoring marks between 30 to 90.
Sharat Chandra: Compared to.
Sharat Chandra: i'm saying that you have a chance of scoring somewhere from night 75 to 90.
Sharat Chandra: When I am trying to do the prediction.
Sharat Chandra: or let's say you are doing the prediction to me.
Sharat Chandra: Okay i'm asking you the question and you're coming up with the predictions.
Sharat Chandra: option one is this option two is this.
Sharat Chandra: In each of these two cases.
Sharat Chandra: You have more confidence.
Sharat Chandra: That when you.
Rachana Kumbha: have been different because it's only a range of 20 right so at least range, it has.
Rachana Kumbha: Like that's a more precise answer if you're looking for a precise answer.
Sharat Chandra: But what does the chance that you're going to be correct.
Rachana Kumbha: The chance is very less chances with that because.
Sharat Chandra: Your confidence is will come down a.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, definitely yes, yes.
Sharat Chandra: So Mike what my question was your confidence when you are trying to tell these results to your clients.
Rachana Kumbha: well.
Sharat Chandra: Your confidence also reduces with the range.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Right yes.
Sharat Chandra: So you cannot be giving a full range wide range, at the same time, you cannot be giving a range, which is too short, where your confidence is going.
Rachana Kumbha: To come.
Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So you need to have.
Sharat Chandra: A balanced approach.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: This calculations.
Rachana Kumbha: That we're trying to.
Sharat Chandra: Look at is called as confidence interval because you're giving some interval.
Sharat Chandra: And that interval should also be having some confidence associated with it.
Sharat Chandra: So tomorrow's temperature could be 20 degrees to 40 degrees 10 degrees to 15 weeks.
Sharat Chandra: Confidence in this result will be more.
Sharat Chandra: Your confidence when you are predicting the results in wider range will be more because the chance of the actual value falling in this range is more.
Sharat Chandra: isn't it if this is the area under the bell curve i'm trying bell curve, because these are continuous values that were speaking about.
Sharat Chandra: Right alright, so this is continuous one yo.
Sharat Chandra: If I see 20 degrees to 40 degrees.
Sharat Chandra: Then tomorrow's temperature actually being in this range.
Sharat Chandra: will be less right probability associated with this range is less.
Yes.
Sharat Chandra: But if I say 10 degrees to 50 degrees, the probability of the value falling in this range increases.
Sharat Chandra: So that means the prediction that i'm doing has more chance of being correct.
Sharat Chandra: Right, hence it scholars confidence interval.
Sharat Chandra: So let us see how how to actually do the calculation and how do we actually interpret this.
Sharat Chandra: So a bank with hundred thousand customers.
Sharat Chandra: There is a bank financial institution, and it has hundred thousand customers.
Sharat Chandra: And they're offering.
Sharat Chandra: That thinking to offer credit card to its customers.
Sharat Chandra: Okay they're planning to give credit cards.
Sharat Chandra: But giving credit card means there is a lot of investment also involved isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: And the any business right in this case, credit card business the profitability of this option or this business opportunity is going to be.
Sharat Chandra: Depending on what is the total balance that the customers are maintaining because credit cards, if you talk about credits credits are given.
Sharat Chandra: That, if you have money, it has a bank if Bank does not have money, how can it give credits.
Sharat Chandra: How does bank to get money by the savings account by the deposits.
Sharat Chandra: that the individual customers are aggregated all the result will be the capital investment for being the giving the credit cards or credit systems.
Sharat Chandra: So profitability of the card.
Sharat Chandra: will depend on how much money.
Sharat Chandra: Does that bank has that money is based on the average balance that the card holders are make the customers are Nick.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Know should I go ahead and launch the credit card design business head and deciding to come up with this option should I directly launched the credit card land for everybody.
Paramesh Putha: What hadn't been blessed yeah not every.
Sharat Chandra: Now, we should not blindly invest in any business, not just credit card business any business idea, you have should you directly jump in invest money.
Sharat Chandra: Or do you do preliminary analysis, research on whether the idea will work or.
Rachana Kumbha: Definitely will do research before.
Rachana Kumbha: Implementing anything.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly hey so any investment that you have to do you have to be careful.
Sharat Chandra: So blindly investing and then assessing whether it will work or not is a foolish decision, you should not be doing that.
Sharat Chandra: What if it doesn't work all your investment is gone for us isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: So you're going to look out for.
Sharat Chandra: The option on should I invest.
Sharat Chandra: For that, first, you need to do an assessment of the idea here the credit card launches an idea and we are trying to research assistant.
Sharat Chandra: To do that, we are trying to do a pilot lunch.
Sharat Chandra: We generally do pilot lunches.
Sharat Chandra: Much market research campaign is launched, and then we using that right credit Karma banks set up these.
Sharat Chandra: cans, the temporary.
Sharat Chandra: What do you want the stalls and they try to read give pamphlets and try to ask customers about different things, and all that so on the similar lines, a market campaigns run.
Sharat Chandra: And people who are interested, for them, these credit cards will keep.
Sharat Chandra: So 140 customers accept the car.
Sharat Chandra: right when they were launching in the marketing campaign probably 500 different customers came up, but only 140 customers accepted among all the customers that back.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so this becomes your pilot launch you're given this credit card to their customers and whenever you have credit card.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: If you invest in current if you have a credit card, we always try to use the credit card.
Sharat Chandra: right we don't directly use our bank account.
Sharat Chandra: Savings account debit cards.
Sharat Chandra: Right, we will use credit cards.
Sharat Chandra: So that means the average balance.
Sharat Chandra: That we maintain will be a little higher.
Sharat Chandra: Right, so we are trying to see.
Sharat Chandra: What is the average balance.
Sharat Chandra: That the customers these 140 customers are going to maintain because profitability is directly proportionate to the balance that right so market research campaign is launched in which about 140 customers accept the card as a pilot.
Sharat Chandra: Now, when we invested this.
Sharat Chandra: date when we invested the on on these campaign launch the idea is to gather the data and then assess this is your sample.
Sharat Chandra: They were doing inferential statistics here, this is sample.
Sharat Chandra: But as this is your population.
Sharat Chandra: OK.
Sharat Chandra: So the data that we gathered is like the average balance maintained by these 140 is 90 $90 the standard deviation so much and we're also saying assume the population standard is so.
Sharat Chandra: Now, given the sample data.
Sharat Chandra: We have to identify how much would be the average balance if the card is given to all the customers hundred thousand customers, what will be the average fan.
Sharat Chandra: Okay let's let's see what what all things we have and what is that would be to calibrate.
Sharat Chandra: So i'm writing the notation yes symbols hundred thousand is your population size.
Sharat Chandra: sample size is one for.
Sharat Chandra: Right now, this 19 $90 that we are looking at is actually represented as X bar.
Sharat Chandra: This is X bar.
Sharat Chandra: Right, because they are talking about these 140 customers it's a sample data right so expert then $2,833.
Sharat Chandra: This is represented as smallest standard deviation of the sampling.
Sharat Chandra: assume that the population standard deviation population standard deviation is Sigma.
Sharat Chandra: assume that the population standard deviation is.
Sharat Chandra: 2005 that done.
Sharat Chandra: So these values are given to us and we say what can we say about average balance that will be held after a full fledged market.
Sharat Chandra: That meets this is the full fledge market lunch, what will be the average balance for this, so it is population parameter, and this is what we need to identify.
Sharat Chandra: What is our view.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: Difference what will be the mean.
Sharat Chandra: Should I say.
Sharat Chandra: it's been inferential statistics.
Paramesh Putha: We will be.
Paramesh Putha: Like we should know like Mina.
Paramesh Putha: And to be liked by Mr Sam more than.
Paramesh Putha: Later yeah.
Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So, are you saying that we will be doing multiple market lunches.
Paramesh Putha: Like at least, we need the data like only one samples me, maybe I think we cannot get the population.
Sharat Chandra: No, no, no, no, you will be always working with one sample only.
Sharat Chandra: See practically do you want to launch this multiple times.
Sharat Chandra: know you.
Sharat Chandra: Basically, you want more data.
Sharat Chandra: yeah but you cannot just doing this, you cannot just keep doing this and not take a business decision.
Sharat Chandra: Any scenario, you will only be working with single sample next.
Sharat Chandra: yeah so let me.
Paramesh Putha: Talk about this now.
Sharat Chandra: See we're talking about central limit theorem.
Sharat Chandra: Central limit theorem says that.
Sharat Chandra: The statistic value that we are get actually doing the calculation for a price calculation is a.
Sharat Chandra: Continuous value the statistic.
Sharat Chandra: is always a continuous map and if it is continuous, it will be normally distributed and if it is normally distributed a certain properties.
Okay.
Sharat Chandra: And we are interested in finding out a single value of this normally distributed data.
Sharat Chandra: But when I tried to do this in the value calculation, it will be zero property would be zero right hands, we take range, but if I take range, I cannot take the full range I have we appreciate you taking the rich, these are the discussions that we have right.
Sharat Chandra: Now let me ask you a very simple question okay.
Sharat Chandra: you're you're traveling to offices right probably you have started traveling to offices Now the question is how much time.
Sharat Chandra: Will you take to travel in.
Sharat Chandra: Time to travel from.
Sharat Chandra: Your home to office.
Sharat Chandra: yeah but, what is your answer is.
Paramesh Putha: going to be in some ways, like 20 minutes to 30 minutes, if not the participants depending on.
Sharat Chandra: Depending on that traffic so you're saying 20 to 30 okay.
Sharat Chandra: yeah there's.
Sharat Chandra: Everybody will.
Paramesh Putha: might want to write.
Sharat Chandra: share your answer.
Rachana Kumbha: It also depends on a mode of travel right like if you're going by metro and probably take less time away.
Sharat Chandra: Whatever it is.
Sharat Chandra: i'm not worried about all that i'm just asking you to tell me what is the time travel that you basically.
Rachana Kumbha: It would be an arranger Nice are obviously so 40 minutes to 60 minutes 40 minutes to 60.
Sharat Chandra: Okay you're saying 40 to 60 okay.
Sharat Chandra: Assuming you're traveling only by one mode of transport.
Sharat Chandra: The respect to whatever.
Sharat Chandra: Oh, my number two one enough or.
Sharat Chandra: If I have to convert that you two.
Sharat Chandra: minutes, then I would probably say 60 minutes to 90 minutes.
Sharat Chandra: That do you do 40 somebody saying 30 to 40 Okay, my question to you all.
Sharat Chandra: Right 60 to 90 minutes or why 20 to 30 minutes or white 30 to 40 or 40 to 60 days for in your respective cases, why not this 25 to.
30.
Sharat Chandra: like this.
Rachana Kumbha: With.
Sharat Chandra: 10 to nine, irrespective of the case i'm talking about let's say, if you are cases in your office or home or fixed distances right I don't think it will change.
Rachana Kumbha: The word for permission has different distance, for me it is.
Sharat Chandra: done i'm not talking more pernicious i'm talking only about your case you said 20 to 30.
Sharat Chandra: So, for your case i'm asking why 20 to 30 is.
Sharat Chandra: Your answer, why not 10 to 14 or why not 25 to 30.
Sharat Chandra: Why do you do take 10 minutes interval.
Sharat Chandra: Why not 30 minute interval or why not five minutes.
Rachana Kumbha: minimum and maximum time like I would have ever taken the least amount of ever taken to travel, what is 20 minutes in the maximum time I would have taken in wants to travel with is 13.
Sharat Chandra: Now, how.
Sharat Chandra: Are you conclusion that.
Sharat Chandra: My question is, how are you, including.
Sharat Chandra: Are you sure, basically, whatever the title travel time that you had to know the experience that till now is your sample data.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yes.
Sharat Chandra: Are you sure you're going not going beyond 30 minutes in future.
Sharat Chandra: populations.
Rachana Kumbha: We can see this more probability of the time being, between 20 to 30 minutes what.
Sharat Chandra: Is that is a.
Sharat Chandra: yeah what is what up there is an accident on the road.
Rachana Kumbha: yeah.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes.
Rachana Kumbha: Then it will vary.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, sample data from your past experiences only they're talking about all.
Sharat Chandra: This, but I want to also consider the.
Sharat Chandra: confidence that that you are coming up with this scenario.
Right.
Sharat Chandra: If you say 25 to 30 minutes, maybe.
Sharat Chandra: There are there will be cases where you're going to reach beyond I mean you're going to take beyond 20 minutes sorry.
Sharat Chandra: 30 minutes.
Sharat Chandra: Sorry, my office.
Rachana Kumbha: Several guys, he said, the as the rage increases, then the confidence levels also increased when the range is smaller than the confidence levels also will be lesser right.
Sharat Chandra: yeah that's what i'm trying to explain, yes, if I see 25 to 30 million you.
Sharat Chandra: can say 25 to 30 minutes.
Sharat Chandra: There are chances where you might reach office, the late.
Sharat Chandra: More than 30 minutes are there might be cases where you're going to reach office early before 25 minutes.
Sharat Chandra: Right so chance of going wrong will increase.
Sharat Chandra: Right, whereas here the chance of going wrong is less.
Sharat Chandra: Compared to this, the chance of going wrong is less here right.
Sharat Chandra: So whatever we are we're basically talking about it, so if you're saying 20 to 30 minutes, I mean i'm only talking about one example Okay, you said 20 to 30.
Sharat Chandra: This could be 25 and we basically just 25 plus or minus five.
Sharat Chandra: Right hey.
Sharat Chandra: it's in the first place, why 20 to 30, why not some other than.
Sharat Chandra: This is because of your.
Sharat Chandra: Experience sample data.
Sharat Chandra: And this is with respect to your Conference.
Sharat Chandra: If you want to be more conflict say i'm your manager and if i'm asking you this question.
Sharat Chandra: Right, you need to give more chance to yourself, so that you reach that office begin the time right, so in that case you probably say 10 minutes.
Sharat Chandra: Right, because the scope that you are getting now will increase.
Sharat Chandra: She will be more confident when you are representing this number isn't it, she will say 15 minutes to 35 minutes, whereas if you say 25 plus or minus five minutes, that means you're only given 20 minutes 30 minutes range for yourself.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
Everyone making sense right.
Sharat Chandra: Yes.
Sharat Chandra: it's making sense of.
Paramesh Putha: confidence.
Sharat Chandra: 30 confidence.
Paramesh Putha: That, if the range is more like ranges more white than on the ball.
Sharat Chandra: Obviously, yes, because the chance of your value falling in that range increases.
Rachana Kumbha: That, but if they go the minimum and maximum mistaken I Canna marks case you have begun like 02 hundred then there it's be like hundred percent confidence if the complete range is taken.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, yeah.
Sharat Chandra: So there is no chance you're going wrong, say, the actual value can live between this marks.
Yes.
Sharat Chandra: So there is.
Some confidence, maybe.
Sharat Chandra: that's what i'm saying.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So when the actual result comes let's look at this so i'm basically saying 02 hundred 200 bucks you write the exam you get tourism you'll get some dessert.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: That is what we were trying to predict in the initial case.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, now that result will be in this range on the right, yes, so that means whatever I predicted is correct.
Sharat Chandra: But if I see.
Sharat Chandra: let's say 50 marks to say 50 to 80 bucks.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, my range is now 50 to 80 bucks.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the case when you write the exam there is always a chance that you have got more marks, whatever it is, at point one, two or 85 or 90 whatever, but there is still a chance that you might score more marks.
Sharat Chandra: Right, are there is a chance that you might get less than 15 months.
Sharat Chandra: If you have scored a mark, which is like 85 is my prediction correct.
Rachana Kumbha: No definitely so.
Sharat Chandra: I will not have the same confidence, where I have at this stage.
Sharat Chandra: 02 hundred percent i'll have 100% confident hundred percent sure that the result is.
Sharat Chandra: going to fall industry, but here it is not.
Sharat Chandra: that's that's what you're trying to understand now just imagine whatever i'm talking about just imagine on a range like this, this is your continuous scale okay X axis i'm saying 02 hundred.
Sharat Chandra: That means you're all the values will fall here on.
Sharat Chandra: Correct.
Sharat Chandra: area under the curve is hundred percent one.
Sharat Chandra: So any result that you're calculating will be in this accepted region hundred percent region.
Sharat Chandra: But if I see.
Sharat Chandra: 50 to 80.
Sharat Chandra: So 52 let's say at.
Sharat Chandra: This blue lines would be my range.
Sharat Chandra: And if the actual value falls within this range, only then i'm correct my prediction is that the left side and writes it portion.
Sharat Chandra: Is.
Sharat Chandra: The chance, where you're going wrong, these are if these values are falling on your mark is falling, with this then your prediction is wrong.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: This so the chance, you have the confidence you have we diminish that chance or confidence is measured using this area.
Sharat Chandra: i'm just trying to bring up the same point again and again and again and again, because you need to understand the concept here.
Sharat Chandra: Now now now the coming back to this scenario credit cards in there you'll see the visualization also if you see this scenario.
Sharat Chandra: Can I see based on my sample.
Sharat Chandra: A single sample that we have taken.
Sharat Chandra: which takes 1990.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: If we consider this as the result.
Sharat Chandra: Then.
Sharat Chandra: This may be not hundred percent correct.
Sharat Chandra: Why because.
Sharat Chandra: If my underlying sample very let's say.
Sharat Chandra: assume you're not doing this, but assume if you have that.
Sharat Chandra: Under samples in a different location, then your data would have been changed.
Sharat Chandra: Based on the locality, you might have a different set of customers.
Sharat Chandra: Right coming into the marketing campaign and different set of 140 people might come into picture right.
Sharat Chandra: In those different people are coming, then their bank balances will be different.
Sharat Chandra: And their usage will be different, so do you not get the same number isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: So there is a lot of uncertainty, because your samples can be.
Sharat Chandra: Right, so we don't consider or we don't trust, a single calculation also single point if I do the calculation does.
Sharat Chandra: Property Z so considering both these concepts, we are coming up with a range.
Sharat Chandra: As an answer that range is called us confidence interval.
Sharat Chandra: That confidence interval basically is calculated us point estimate plus or minus margin margin of error.
Sharat Chandra: Point estimate.
Sharat Chandra: Is your sample statistic.
Sharat Chandra: sample statistic margin of error is the variation that we have within that.
Sharat Chandra: sounds I mean if I have in the central limit theorem we discussed all this right.
Sharat Chandra: If I have multiple sample statistic sample means.
Sharat Chandra: Then first movement of this random variable.
Sharat Chandra: will be population parameter, but if I look into the second moment.
Sharat Chandra: Second moment is the variation in this data with respect to him is calculated Sigma squared off.
Sharat Chandra: Okay scary Sigma pi squared.
Sharat Chandra: Right, but again, if I further expand this.
Sharat Chandra: The variations can basically influence the confidence Okay, so the margin of error that we are talking about is associated with the confidence level.
Sharat Chandra: Get the score less confidence level.
Sharat Chandra: Confidence values.
Sharat Chandra: So X bar is your point estimate.
Sharat Chandra: Right and that X bar.
Sharat Chandra: is also getting married by so much.
Sharat Chandra: The zoom we are taking Z because we are talking about statistic being right normally distributed so we're comparing it with the values are.
Sharat Chandra: So, to get the range we're looking at zebra.
Sharat Chandra: Now, this one minus alpha that you're seeing is called us confidence level.
Sharat Chandra: Right and alpha is called us significance live.
Sharat Chandra: i'm going various you know i'm trying to bring out all those right aspects that you that are mandatory for us.
Sharat Chandra: To understand any questions, please ask me.
Sharat Chandra: Do not hesitate minority.
Sharat Chandra: So alpha is representing significance level, this is nothing by.
Sharat Chandra: The error push.
Sharat Chandra: chance off.
Sharat Chandra: era.
Sharat Chandra: The industry right in athletics stream or in business scenarios.
Sharat Chandra: Whenever we want to try to do the predictions.
Sharat Chandra: Right, the predictions are, by default, always our band, assuming that we are 95% correct.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So this is called as 95% confidence level if I use that 95% confidence level, I will get confidence interval.
Sharat Chandra: That means, if this is my.
Sharat Chandra: Go bunker i'm saying that i'm 95% correct.
Sharat Chandra: me this is the portion where your data force.
Sharat Chandra: You still have chance of going wrong, but that is very little.
Sharat Chandra: Right, so now, what is this value if I know that on Z, then the calibration can that.
Sharat Chandra: So how do we get this value.
Sharat Chandra: To look at this I have X bar 19 $90 I have Sigma 2833 This is one for T squared off and small sample sample sizes 140.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: This is the portion where I need to do the math now and to get to as well, if I can get that, then I can calculate the confidence.
Sharat Chandra: So industrial standard is.
Sharat Chandra: 95%, so we will assume that apartment is our first.
95.
Sharat Chandra: So that means I know the area under the curve.
Sharat Chandra: But what are these values which gives us that area is something that we have to find out.
Paramesh Putha: about the rain would be very wide.
Sharat Chandra: By.
Paramesh Putha: Like if we take 95% like it's like predicting the mass will be between 20 and 99.
Sharat Chandra: Because you're talking about distribution of the data we don't know what our values are you fall.
Sharat Chandra: Yes, right so range may or may not be that big we don't know, and it was the shape of the car remember the normal distribution shape of the car is influencing all these things, what if your shape is like this.
Sharat Chandra: yeah this is Max assume this is your marks.
Sharat Chandra: yeah yes, so in that case only limited little portion of data is going to fall in the stadium majority is going to fall here.
Sharat Chandra: But what if I have.
Sharat Chandra: This case.
Sharat Chandra: Then yeah you can see that right.
Sharat Chandra: Good amount of data falling in this significance region as well.
Sharat Chandra: So it's all about the distribution of the data.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So.
Coming back to this discussion.
Sharat Chandra: Reno know area under the curve.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, we know the area under the curve.
Sharat Chandra: But what we want, we want this values right if it is Z then i'll put Z here.
Sharat Chandra: have to be with us to be.
Sharat Chandra: Z the Center will always be zero so this becomes minus Z because Z is standard normal distribution, which is perfectly symmetric and if this is zero this is he then this minus this will be minus end it is symmetric shape right, so it has to be minus.
Sharat Chandra: So that's about your.
Sharat Chandra: confidence, but if I consider this this shaded portion is 95%.
Sharat Chandra: That means 0.9%.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Now I want to identify what is this the values, using the tables, because in the table, we have the calculations already ready.
Sharat Chandra: In the previous example on the gmat scores.
Sharat Chandra: We knew X and from that we calculated Z then we refer to the table to get the probability or area.
Sharat Chandra: But now I have this area or probability.
Sharat Chandra: And I have to move backwards, so I will get Z using the table.
Sharat Chandra: hey, but if you talk about the table the table will contain all the values from minimum to that particular batch.
Sharat Chandra: Right so here in order to identify this number, we will take the left side.
Sharat Chandra: Blue shutters.
Sharat Chandra: So this is what we are going to take.
Sharat Chandra: The blue shaded portion.
Sharat Chandra: What will be that shaded portion crusaded portion if I have to try it and more a good image, this is the image when she image.
Sharat Chandra: were saying that 95% confidence right so let's say this is.
Sharat Chandra: This is 90% okay.
Sharat Chandra: So that means from here to here it is 95.
yeah.
Sharat Chandra: I need to know what will be this see this will be minus eight, this is, you know if I know this, I will be able to also know this because it is classy.
Sharat Chandra: yeah so Z table will always capture.
Sharat Chandra: The values which are from.
Sharat Chandra: left side value right it's always calculating the portion from lower minimum to that particular well.
Sharat Chandra: isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: So what is this portion.
Sharat Chandra: This is 95% So what will be this portion rates.
Paramesh Putha: mean minus four minus at my age standard deviation.
Sharat Chandra: whoa whoa whoa whoa no i'm talking about area under the curve shader ocean.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly.
that's good.
Sharat Chandra: 2.5% why because they yeah and that discovers 95 that means total will be remaining 5% but Z symmetric so that 5% is getting further divided this is.
Sharat Chandra: To banter.
Sharat Chandra: This is corners alpha by two alpha by two.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, and this portion is called as one minus and.
Sharat Chandra: This is one man is that.
Sharat Chandra: If this is 2.5 percentage if I convert this into decimals what will be the result 0.0 to five right for.
Sharat Chandra: developer hundred I get 0.0.
Sharat Chandra: Correct.
Sharat Chandra: So we will go to.
Sharat Chandra: The table.
Sharat Chandra: I will search for the value, which is.
Sharat Chandra: This shaded portion which is 0.025 that gives me dizzy by.
Sharat Chandra: So if I look around the this table where will I have 0.025.
Sharat Chandra: I see some number, but this is 0.00 to five, that is not the value that we want, we want 0.025.
Sharat Chandra: This is occurring when my value is minus 1.96.
Sharat Chandra: yeah that means.
Sharat Chandra: This portion that we're talking about is.
Sharat Chandra: minus 1.968 if I remove this this becomes plus 1.96 and this becomes minus 1.6.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
This is minus 1.96.
Sharat Chandra: This is plus 1.6 is this clear to everyone.
Paramesh Putha: Not.
Sharat Chandra: Everyone is done from is this clear.
TV.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, I want you people to now.
Sharat Chandra: Do the calculation for.
Sharat Chandra: 90% and 99% also.
Sharat Chandra: Do the calibration ways for 90% first.
Sharat Chandra: done.
Sharat Chandra: what's up guys.
Sharat Chandra: That means it's not clear for you people still.
1.644 90% 31.6 190.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, very good.
Paramesh Putha: Point 074 9931 07.
Rachana Kumbha: So, can you please like once again explain, for 95% i'm just trying to figure out for 95.
Sharat Chandra: see whether it is 90% 95% or 99% we have.
Sharat Chandra: The area.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, under the bell curve ignore the area 90% in this example, it is 90% okay now I need to know what what Z values.
Sharat Chandra: We are getting this portion as 90%.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, where this is symmetrical curve, so it will be plus or minus Z.
Sharat Chandra: We are trying to figure out what is that plus or minus diva you.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: So for that, if I have to refer to the table the table always calculates only the left side portion of your bell shaped curve.
Sharat Chandra: Facility for calculations.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so that means if I need to know what is this minus Z.
Sharat Chandra: Then I need to know what does this say that portion in the first.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, if this is 90%.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, this will be.
Sharat Chandra: The outside is 10%.
Rachana Kumbha: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: This is your alpha.
Sharat Chandra: 90% is one minus alpha so alpha is 910 percent.
Sharat Chandra: Right, but this is only alpha by two this is alpha right.
Sharat Chandra: Right yes.
Sharat Chandra: This is alpha by two that means it's 5% 5% means in decimals what is the value 0.0505.
Sharat Chandra: So i'm going to refer to the 0.05 in the Z table.
Sharat Chandra: Where is my 0.0 0.05 0.05.
Sharat Chandra: Sorry, I do not have exactly 0.05, but I see that there is five units additional five units less.
Sharat Chandra: And that value is occurring at 1.64 at this Center averages average of these two.
Sharat Chandra: So this is going to give us plus or minus 1.64.
Okay.
OK so.
Sharat Chandra: now use the same logic try to do it for 99%.
Paramesh Putha: i'm getting my supervisor so.
Could we.
Sharat Chandra: It is 99% 99.
Sharat Chandra: This becomes 1% that means this because point 5% That means there is another zero here.
Sharat Chandra: Are you looking at values with 0.005.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so what is the value that you're getting 2.57 2.507.
How sweet.
Sharat Chandra: 2.5.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: But it's not 0.005 right exactly.
yeah.
Sharat Chandra: So this episode minus 2.575.
Sharat Chandra: Average of 70 and.
82.757.
Sharat Chandra: Now this is plus or minus not just my best, because you might also want to see that right side, so does exactly cemetery so this busyness.
Sharat Chandra: That so we see the.
data.
Rachana Kumbha: yeah if you want to consider to the left side, we have to consider it as minus and to the right side, we have to consider it as plus yes.
Yes.
Sharat Chandra: So this on to this 2157.
Sharat Chandra: This value is something that you have to buy heart plus or minus 1.96.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Now let us go to the calculation.
Sharat Chandra: Calculations don't mind just a very simple calculation all these values are given.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So if I do Sigma squared, and this is that is that accurate in average is this the confidence interval or you can also call it as interval estimate is equal to.
Sharat Chandra: Point estimate plus or minus margin of error.
Sharat Chandra: Point estimate is the statistic that you have categorical in our case, it is expert plus or minus margin of error margin of error is basically taken a Z it's one minus alpha into Sigma squared off in.
Sharat Chandra: Red one minus alpha is called as confidence level, this is.
Sharat Chandra: main different presented this to to have to do that.
Sharat Chandra: The Z value is plus or minus 1.96 here we are saying.
Sharat Chandra: 1990 X bar.
Sharat Chandra: plus or minus Z has one minus alpha.
Sharat Chandra: To summarize what six.
Sharat Chandra: Sigma by Square and to 11.2 main.
Sharat Chandra: comma plus 1.96 into cooler and cooler.
Sharat Chandra: This is the range.
Sharat Chandra: If it has to be 90% confidence, confidence is decreasing right so.
Sharat Chandra: Your range will also decrease 1990 plus plus or minus my by.
Sharat Chandra: This is minus.
Sharat Chandra: 1.645 into to 11.29 comma 1990 plus 1.645 into to learn.
Sharat Chandra: This 6.1 foreign minus plus or minus 1.96 that we see that is the only value, which is changing in both these things and based on that change the range of luxury to.
Sharat Chandra: Get.
Sharat Chandra: your questions.
Sharat Chandra: Okay i'm assuming no questions.
Paramesh Putha: Like, we have to do this only after making the data into normal later.
Sharat Chandra: Absolutely.
Sharat Chandra: Data has to be normal.
Rachana Kumbha: So we have to use the appropriate transformation technique and then make it normal and then apply this.
Rachana Kumbha: In Python.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, yes, yes, yes.
Sharat Chandra: Now, whatever the languages that are a SAS based tool, whether it is our whether it's by them or any other tool that we, we probably might want to use this is the logic that you have to data has to be normal in order to interpret all this.
Sharat Chandra: location right, yes, so we will take a small break now.
Sharat Chandra: it's a 440.
Sharat Chandra: will connect at 448 eight minutes.
Sharat Chandra: not going under the break to another so yeah eight minutes just just come back in eight minutes guys.
Sharat Chandra: So there does seem to see.
Paramesh Putha: Someone oh.
Sharat Chandra: yeah good good.
Paramesh Putha: So in this case, actually, we want the population standard deviation but impractical impractical as like after getting like we after doing some one for the customer, so we can get a standard standard deviation for one last question oh so.
Sharat Chandra: yeah that that's the next concept punish will discuss that with me.
Sharat Chandra: Good good.
Sharat Chandra: Right analysis.
Sharat Chandra: that's one of the important point that we have to discuss.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so before we go to that let's talk about the things that we discuss now.
Sharat Chandra: So confidence interval is basically nothing but that interval that we have to come up with for predictions.
Sharat Chandra: And this is basically done on let's say point estimate plus or minus the error that that we have because of the sampling variation.
Sharat Chandra: We call it a margin of it.
Sharat Chandra: So point estimate is nothing but the calculation that will be doing, because we will always work with a single sample on will not work with multiple templates or a single jump.
Sharat Chandra: So point estimate plus or minus margin of error will vary, based on the confidence that we are trying to print.
Sharat Chandra: Because of Z at one minus alpha.
Sharat Chandra: into the variation with among the multiple samples that might have.
Sharat Chandra: So that variation is called as a standard error, this is called a standard error.
Sharat Chandra: Is not standard deviation standard deviation speaks about.
Sharat Chandra: The variation in one sample.
Sharat Chandra: That variation of the individual records, with respect to the mean, but here standard error, we are trying to interpret the variation among the surface multiple sound.
Sharat Chandra: Good, this is the formula.
Sharat Chandra: Now, when we do the calculations, the confidence level is something that we have to measure it has nothing but the points on the Z axis, which give us the area under the curve.
Sharat Chandra: So if I know that area under the curve being 95%.
Sharat Chandra: Then, what is this Z that's what we're trying to identify minus n plus.
Sharat Chandra: So when we do the calculation before that, let me record this Z value at 95% is plus or minus 1.960 90% is plus or minus 1.645.
Sharat Chandra: And zero 99% is plus or minus 2.575.
Sharat Chandra: Now these three standard values or something that you might want to remember.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, especially this.
Sharat Chandra: That the default 190 5% confidence is the default confidence level that we need to measure that predictions.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Now.
Sharat Chandra: Then we do the calculation at 95% confidence right, this is the results that the calibration expert assignments, we get this.
Sharat Chandra: night, but if you look at those results, the statements that we pass it.
Sharat Chandra: Those statements should include all the references that we are basically using.
Sharat Chandra: The mean violence of the population nice industry.
Sharat Chandra: mean balance right off the population license the strange very good, so we are talking about meal lying in this range, but what confidence.
Sharat Chandra: Is it 90% 95%.
Sharat Chandra: That is not explained by so confidence level is not given here, so this cannot be here right state.
Sharat Chandra: mean balance is in this range 95% of the time, so this is given.
Sharat Chandra: But mean balance is it new or is it X bar.
Sharat Chandra: That is not mentioned, so this is also not.
Sharat Chandra: We have to refer to the sample also and we are making the statement because using that sample only we are getting this stuff, and this is completely wrong because you cannot use only 95% of the customers, you have to use 100% of the data.
Sharat Chandra: So the only to corrupt interpretations, at least.
Sharat Chandra: and basically we are saying.
Sharat Chandra: mean of the population has 95% chance of being in this range for a random sample That means, if you take any random sample.
Sharat Chandra: And do the calculations, the mean of the population has 95% chance of being in this range.
Sharat Chandra: Right I.
Sharat Chandra: mean of the population will be in this day and mean of the population will be in this range.
Sharat Chandra: right for 95% of the run up so that means if I take hundred samples.
Sharat Chandra: Then 95% of the samples X bar values will lie in this range God.
Sharat Chandra: And that's that's what the second statement So these are the only two statements which are correct, not these three.
Sharat Chandra: So, ultimately, we are saying that this is the population result parameter, but that is obtained using sample statistic and at certain confidentially.
Sharat Chandra: So if you use all these three, then these are corrupt interpretations.
Sharat Chandra: Now the actual question counts the formula.
Sharat Chandra: Confidence interval is X bar plus on my eyes, I mean margin of error rate, so it is a point estimate plus or minus margin of error.
Sharat Chandra: The margin of error is nothing but.
Sharat Chandra: see it when when is i'll find to standard error.
Sharat Chandra: standard is nothing but Sigma squared.
Sharat Chandra: Now this formula is used to calculate or estimate parameter.
Sharat Chandra: admins on population data, what will be the results.
Sharat Chandra: But this is done in the first place, because we only have sample data we don't have population.
Sharat Chandra: The population data is not available then how can I get this parent.
Sharat Chandra: it's rather a I cannot have a parameter used to calculate another parameter because, if I am able to get this parameter, then I should be able to be also get this parameter right I don't need to do all these big calculations not required.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So practically speaking.
Sharat Chandra: You will not have Sigma.
Sharat Chandra: theta if the bankers new one, hence the population standard deviation from the previous lunches is not reuse, that means I don't know what was the previous lunch average.
Sharat Chandra: There is seek my is not.
Sharat Chandra: What are we doing.
Sharat Chandra: We are calculating new using expert point St.
Sharat Chandra: hey if I don't know Sigma can I also not use sample standard deviation to estimate population standard deviation.
Sharat Chandra: that's what we are doing in the first place right.
Sharat Chandra: We are trying to take statistic to interpret for parameter.
Sharat Chandra: Correct, so we are trying to do that heroes, not just on the meal, but also send division.
Sharat Chandra: So the best the replacement for Sigma is its finest.
Sharat Chandra: But if I have to do the calculation, we are considering the variation aspect is what.
Sharat Chandra: I get our data to take X bar because it's but keeps changing isn't it, the reason why we have to see equation confidence interval equation.
Sharat Chandra: Then, how can I blindly estimate Sigma using yes here also there will be variation right.
Sharat Chandra: That variation also should be captured.
Sharat Chandra: If I have to use small, as in the equation, and a variation that comes with this Sigma is also something that we have to consider.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So to capture that variation.
Sharat Chandra: That is under distribution called T distribution, and this, the distribution is used.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, p distribution is just.
Sharat Chandra: A distribution is also known as student tea distribution.
Sharat Chandra: Which is also branch, you can say of normal distribution date same normal distribution concept.
Sharat Chandra: hey so rather than Z distribution now, we will have to use the distribution, which also accounts to be variation of the Sigma.
Sharat Chandra: variation calculating same.
Sharat Chandra: Right so that's.
Sharat Chandra: The key distribution usage.
Sharat Chandra: T distribution, as I mentioned, is just like a standard.
Sharat Chandra: has one property.
Sharat Chandra: It is very similar to see that one difference is basically the category property of your peers.
Sharat Chandra: And that is.
Sharat Chandra: This property.
Sharat Chandra: As then how the sample size increases that T distribution tends to become Z distribution.
Sharat Chandra: So D distribution will also get affected with the sample size, which is also expressed as degrees of freedom.
Sharat Chandra: And minus one.
Sharat Chandra: minus to read those degrees of freedom to be used.
Sharat Chandra: So, if your degrees of freedom is one that means your sample size is too.
Sharat Chandra: Then.
Sharat Chandra: This becomes your Z this becomes your.
Sharat Chandra: Right Z.
Sharat Chandra: You can see.
Sharat Chandra: That there's a clear case of difference.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Different clear differences.
Sharat Chandra: But as the sample size increases.
Sharat Chandra: As the sample size keep increasing that gap between these two is reduced, and at this stage it's almost equal.
Sharat Chandra: But they are not going to be exactly.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So this is.
Sharat Chandra: N minus 130 degrees and almost to touch that's your property.
Sharat Chandra: They will not be exactly the same, but there will be very, very close.
Sharat Chandra: If n is tending to become infinity.
Sharat Chandra: And is increasing sample sizes increasing that means if sample size increases the variation is that using zenda.
Sharat Chandra: So your tea distribution tends to become Z distribution.
Sharat Chandra: See very, very simple, if this is my population if I take a small sample then there could be a lot of variation between the sand.
Sharat Chandra: Right between the values that will not have a.
Sharat Chandra: But if my sample size increases, then that variation between the samples will be there.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: And the distribution is all about capturing that way.
Sharat Chandra: So as Z as n tends to infinity T tends to becomes.
Sharat Chandra: And a formula is changing like this.
Sharat Chandra: In place of Sigma we are replacing.
Sharat Chandra: smallest.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: But as to counter this variations we bring in T distribution in place of CDs.
Sharat Chandra: Right, and here we have one minus alpha.
Sharat Chandra: And N minus one as well because T distribution is getting impacted by the sanford's.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Now I know what does expire, I know what is smallest, I know what is square root of n I don't know the tea distribution T values.
Sharat Chandra: So just like how we have the distribution.
Sharat Chandra: We also have P table just replace that Z with the that's a.
Sharat Chandra: that's your details.
Sharat Chandra: right hand this is your table.
Sharat Chandra: And yet this is the table.
Sharat Chandra: The table, you have to look at the first column.
Sharat Chandra: which has degrees of freedom.
Sharat Chandra: And at the bottom, you see the confidence level, Sir, I mean that's how we read it at the top, this is like one to two tails at all that you can ignore it.
Sharat Chandra: What it means we only look at left side who tells me boo the Bush okay.
Sharat Chandra: So that's basically your.
calculations.
Sharat Chandra: And the year we want.
Sharat Chandra: to capture.
Sharat Chandra: The P value for one minus Alpha and N minus one.
Sharat Chandra: One minus alpha is.
Sharat Chandra: 95% N minus one small island is 140 so this becomes 113.
Sharat Chandra: But if you look at the table here.
Sharat Chandra: We don't have one for.
Sharat Chandra: The next closest value is hundred.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so we will take 95% at hand.
Sharat Chandra: And it's a physical page, so we cannot enjoy everything, but when we do the calculations you'll also get these exact values us.
Sharat Chandra: So 1.984.
Sharat Chandra: Alright, so that's your calculations, so we replace that P value with.
This calculation.
Sharat Chandra: And this is the numbers that you will see.
Sharat Chandra: So this is smallest 2833 right, and then you look at look at this and T value at 0.975 or 95%.
Sharat Chandra: is one that 1.988 degrees of freedom as 130.
Sharat Chandra: Okay don't get confused with 0.975.
Sharat Chandra: If this is your curve.
Sharat Chandra: If this is 95%.
Sharat Chandra: And then, this will be 2.5% So if I had both of them i'll get this he left said cumulative portion right for 97.5%.
Sharat Chandra: This is the Z value.
Sharat Chandra: Get 95.7 verse.
Sharat Chandra: hey, this is the.
Sharat Chandra: positive side, if you do have been this point, then you might want to write it as 0.025, and this will be one minus.
Sharat Chandra: minus 1.0 point nine.
Sharat Chandra: So when you do the calculation.
Sharat Chandra: very similar to the interpretation that we have done for the table same thing here on fertility.
Sharat Chandra: All right.
Sharat Chandra: Any questions.
Sharat Chandra: yeah guys any questions.
Sharat Chandra: nope so.
Sharat Chandra: Now these things that we have done manually right let's do that.
Sharat Chandra: In Python.
Sharat Chandra: So go on, let me down on the business basic Statistics Code that you have already have read and go all the way down.
Sharat Chandra: Standard edition normalization and after normal qq blood yeah this is busy distribution characteristics.
Sharat Chandra: Alright, so this is my data i'm importing side by dot stats.
Sharat Chandra: This is required because the Z distribution is calculated using this tax functionality so stats dot nom dot CDF CFS cumulative distribution function.
Sharat Chandra: It basically takes the X value.
Sharat Chandra: there's the syntax OK.
Sharat Chandra: Serious CDF X are your you can also call it a squad time comma new cameras.
Sharat Chandra: But this is the representation parameter representation, so we have six at mujer 711 segments 20.
Sharat Chandra: Right cumulative distribution function.
Sharat Chandra: If I execute this it will give me the area under the Left curve on the left side push that is your CD of cumulative.
Sharat Chandra: Distribution function.
Sharat Chandra: All you need to passes mean it standard.
Sharat Chandra: So this 14.25%, to be precise.
Sharat Chandra: Then we have point percent function or percentage point function.
Sharat Chandra: So I know the percentage.
Sharat Chandra: That I know the percentage.
Sharat Chandra: This is 0.025 I know this percentage.
Sharat Chandra: What is the point at which i'll get this person.
Sharat Chandra: and passing meal and Sigma for Z value status.
Sharat Chandra: Z has the standard right, even if we don't give by default you're assuming that the function as your status 01 Sigma.
Sharat Chandra: So we're talking about 0.0.
Sharat Chandra: So point 4% point function is giving us minus 1.96.
Sharat Chandra: Now this is what Z distribution normal distribution.
Sharat Chandra: same calculation, if I have to do the area under the curve, then I will be doing the distribution for CDF RT distribution for percent point function.
Sharat Chandra: Right So these are.
Sharat Chandra: The calculations stats dot T dot CDF but here i'm passing.
Sharat Chandra: The right value.
Sharat Chandra: The value with degrees of freedom.
Sharat Chandra: Alright So here we have to do.
Sharat Chandra: quantel value right so i'm passing that one time value, I am getting area under the.
Sharat Chandra: Great.
Sharat Chandra: same way if you see ppm I know this value what will be the I mean this is the area under the curve and what will be the exact P value at which we get.
Sharat Chandra: One minus 1.977 when very precise number calculations and.
Sharat Chandra: So this is the.
Sharat Chandra: Calculations that that basically are done.
Sharat Chandra: Yet all these way we're doing it in man.
Sharat Chandra: yeah so that's that's about your.
Sharat Chandra: theory of doing predictions on numeric data inferential statistics, so when you are doing inferential statistics, remember that the samples might vary, hence we have to consider that variation and then probability of single number is equal to zero hands, we have predicted in a REACH.
Sharat Chandra: And that's where confidence in the world coming to the picture.
Sharat Chandra: and confidence interval basically says point estimate plus or minus margin of error and the margin of error is associated with the confidence level.
Sharat Chandra: The range it which right the range, at which the results will fall under the bell curve, which is infinity skin we're trying to find out a range, in which the actual values might work for that becomes your competency.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so that's your inferential statistics and using these inferential statistics we will basically take decisions.
Sharat Chandra: That informed decisions.
Sharat Chandra: For example, number in the credit card scenario.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Should I launched the credit card program or not to all my customers, something that you have to take a decision.
Sharat Chandra: So when you're looking at your investment and all that.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: As from a business perspective okay from from a business perspective let's say you're you're looking at.
Sharat Chandra: Some let's see.
Sharat Chandra: let's see.
Sharat Chandra: yeah $2,000 is the calculation that you are getting for Roi.
Sharat Chandra: But whatever the investment that you, as you come in this video.
Sharat Chandra: If your balance is going to be 2000 or more for all the hundred thousand customers, this is your population right if this was the piece.
Sharat Chandra: hey, this is the estimation, so you are doing the calculations.
Sharat Chandra: So your business is very clear that you need to get $2,000 but unless until you do the business will not know whether you will get $2,000 or.
Sharat Chandra: Hence we do the.
Sharat Chandra: sample calculations that by legend.
Sharat Chandra: And within the pilot launch we get confidence interval we're trying to estimate the result so we'll get some range at 95% confidence if I have to take the default one.
Sharat Chandra: If my right reserved confidence interval that i'm getting is basically saying.
Sharat Chandra: 1800 to 1900.
Sharat Chandra: K let's say this is your range.
Sharat Chandra: If you are in since.
Sharat Chandra: As part of the calculations right pilot lunch.
Sharat Chandra: yeah if i'm getting this should I continue with the business.
Sharat Chandra: Should we continue with the business case.
Paramesh Putha: depends on the credit card limit.
Sharat Chandra: already mentioned be made of it then on investment is calculated as.
Sharat Chandra: $2,000 which basically means that the minimum balance that all these hundred thousand customers should maintain 2000, this is the guideline the businesses deciding based on all the calculations on the investment that they have made, and all that.
Sharat Chandra: From a business perspective management is clear, they need to get $2,000 to make business profitable.
Paramesh Putha: than.
Sharat Chandra: That i'm getting only 1800 and 1900 so should I continue my business.
Sharat Chandra: Know obviously no definitely why because this condition is not satisfied.
Sharat Chandra: Linda.
Sharat Chandra: If my business is 1900 to 2100 I mean if this is the confidence interval the time it gets to this case one this is case should I continue, or should I stop.
Rachana Kumbha: may continue and consider to continue.
Paramesh Putha: you're not launching are all the customers, maybe.
Sharat Chandra: This will you have lunch, the population.
Sharat Chandra: that's the objective you cannot say I only lunch for so many know.
Sharat Chandra: it's what all the customers we're generalizing.
Paramesh Putha: Then, maybe know because, like there's a chance of 1900 also so not meeting $2,000.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, Peter completed, we.
Rachana Kumbha: should start from 2000.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, yes, Sir 1900 to 2020 2100 basically is nothing but.
Sharat Chandra: This is less than buddha's.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, see if you're doing a business right you're investing thousand dollars you're doing some tasks and you're exactly getting thousand bucks in returns is this a good business model.
Paramesh Putha: No.
Sharat Chandra: No right, it has to be greater, it has to be greater than what you have.
Sharat Chandra: invested on it, then you proceed.
Sharat Chandra: So 2000 is the return on investment racing if I get $2,000, then the investment is returned.
Sharat Chandra: I need more than 2000 to become profitable, so you are going to only look into the case if you are range is going to start from 2001 to probably 2005 or 2500 whatever that number.
Sharat Chandra: Only if you're identifying.
Sharat Chandra: Your confidence interval being like this, compared to 2000 only in this case, you will proceed with the investment and and proceed with the business.
Sharat Chandra: Here we are doing.
Sharat Chandra: Our informed decisions you taking a informed decisions and this informed decisions are also known as data driven decisions.
Sharat Chandra: Rather than blindly saying okay this area, the business will be very good this business ideas very good let's invest.
Sharat Chandra: Right, rather than that blind hand, these are decisions we basically come up with this data driven decisions are informed.
Sharat Chandra: Right good.
Sharat Chandra: Is it clear yes.
Paramesh Putha: Yes.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, sir.
Okay.
Sharat Chandra: This concept that we just discussed right is also called as hypothesis testing.
Sharat Chandra: Information based on data.
Sharat Chandra: Now this hypothesis testing is not being focused in the interview, so we also have remote from our regular.
sessions.
Sharat Chandra: at once upon a time, is this concepts were considered for interviews now they're not asking anything from this particular questions, so I only cover the theory particle theory, but then we'll move on to the next.
Sharat Chandra: So.
Sharat Chandra: You can just continue with recording you can do the practice yes.
Paramesh Putha: So before like, as we have unwritten the numerical kind of production kind of thing like I have adults are like in assignments, in addition, three assignments actually have to predict the company's date of sales, like the output is a numeric.
Sharat Chandra: Decision tree the desert has to be.
Paramesh Putha: Here, because it has to be taken, but like no matter like how many times the accuracies like it's a big plus.
Sharat Chandra: That means, be a bad idea tuning has to be tried more.
Sharat Chandra: It has nothing to do with the classification or numeric data, it is all about the parameters that you're trying.
Paramesh Putha: So that is also numeric data right like continuous numeric data than white on please conference.
Sharat Chandra: automatically your confidence interval is calculated.
Paramesh Putha: Okay, by default, like in those packets like they shouldn't be.
Sharat Chandra: Any regrets at model, the calculation that you are doing, will, by default, assume 95% confidence, and you are going to actually get confidence interval.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, to the calculations will not give you this interval in certain cases, the intervals, are also can what you can at this point estimate only.
Paramesh Putha: Okay, so, in those cases like invasion to eat better like internally is calculating all those things that conference and we're not.
Sharat Chandra: Even take the parameters, the confidence interval is also that yes.
Paramesh Putha: that's it's.
Sharat Chandra: very, very simple guys if my data is numeric.
Sharat Chandra: Right and if it is especially continuous.
Sharat Chandra: Because my underlying sample changes.
Sharat Chandra: That and and the length sample changes.
Sharat Chandra: The result so to capture that variation.
Sharat Chandra: We use confidence interval.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, and if the prediction that that you're getting is a numeric prediction the numerical but then the model is coldness regression model or aggressors if the model is giving non numerical but then it is called, as a class that's yes.
Sharat Chandra: Okay next.
Sharat Chandra: hypothesis testing, as I explained is all about.
Sharat Chandra: Making certain assumptions for parameters.
Sharat Chandra: But because parameters cannot be identified, we will take sample.
Sharat Chandra: From population, and then we calculate statistics.
Sharat Chandra: And while making estimations we use confidence interval for estimating the path.
Sharat Chandra: and using the estimated.
Sharat Chandra: Estimated results.
Sharat Chandra: We will take business decisions.
Sharat Chandra: But when you're trying to do this.
Sharat Chandra: There might be cases where.
Sharat Chandra: You may go.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, so there are certain terminologies or certain standard process that you have to follow, let us try and understand that process.
Sharat Chandra: Next.
Sharat Chandra: let's it the business that we are speaking right was having an Roi as 2000.
Sharat Chandra: Then.
i'll put it this way okay.
Sharat Chandra: So first case right, if I have to take a business decision on whether to launch credit card offer to be and then credit cards to the customer service.
Sharat Chandra: lines credit packs Okay, this is the.
Sharat Chandra: Right, so if I have to launch credit card and i'm basically taking a decision okay.
Sharat Chandra: What would be your.
Sharat Chandra: First.
Sharat Chandra: Decision a.
Sharat Chandra: Safer decision yeah, this is the question.
Sharat Chandra: What will be your safer decision.
Sharat Chandra: Any new change that you're bringing in there's nothing but a business challenge.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Paramesh Putha: So you can score.
Paramesh Putha: 37 score.
Similar.
Sharat Chandra: Basically score is coming, what is the question you are the manager of the Bank.
Sharat Chandra: mean you're the head of the Bank.
Sharat Chandra: You have a decision to be taken, what is the decision should I launched the credit card to the customers or not.
Okay.
yeah.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the key.
Is.
Sharat Chandra: Then, what will be your answer.
Rachana Kumbha: So this is, it is exactly like $2,000 is the return on investment, like we don't know, we need to consider the plus and minus cases also right so it's exactly the same value, there may be a minus case or so so.
Rachana Kumbha: It should, no, no, no, no, no okay again okay.
Sharat Chandra: hold on hold on we're not talking about.
Sharat Chandra: Our our you.
Sharat Chandra: know our role is a condition see as a manager, as the.
Sharat Chandra: head of the band, you have to take a decision but you're saying that Okay, if I have to be implemented, this is the investment that I have to put.
Sharat Chandra: If I get only this kind of returns, only then it will be profitable that these kind of decisions you're looking at already I mean sorry this kind of information you're also looking at.
Sharat Chandra: As part of that I said.
Sharat Chandra: If the business gets.
Sharat Chandra: Minimum $2,000, then the money is right or at it.
Sharat Chandra: From that aspect of return that forget about the question here, all you have to think about us there is a business decision that you need to take should I launched the credit card to the customers are not.
Rachana Kumbha: So, as we like previously discussed, probably the launch a pilot program like will will choose very few people and launch it.
Sharat Chandra: Is that is the process that you are implementing.
Sharat Chandra: To get the data and then taken informed decisions but.
Before that i'm saying.
Sharat Chandra: Maybe if you have a decision.
Paramesh Putha: You have to consider risk risk factor select even be.
Sharat Chandra: plan Basra on look at all those things guys take simple steps.
Sharat Chandra: My question is, will you launch the credit card or not, what two options, you have.
Sharat Chandra: There will be two options only that.
Sharat Chandra: If certain parts are all going to come when you're going to detail into that.
Sharat Chandra: I ultimately for this question what two answers you have there will be only two answers, yes, you launch no you don't look.
Sharat Chandra: Now, getting me.
Sharat Chandra: Given this scenario.
Sharat Chandra: Which one would you prefer as a risk less scenarios.
Paramesh Putha: are giving them, obviously we choose to launch the credit.
Sharat Chandra: Is that riskless.
Rachana Kumbha: feud launch that there may be losses also if you launch it so.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly the riskiest rate.
Sharat Chandra: so to speak, is walking.
Sharat Chandra: See whatever you're currently doing you're assuming that that is a good scenario that is a good status that you are in all conditions are good.
Sharat Chandra: That is the default assumption.
Sharat Chandra: We also call it us status Q.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Now, what is your default or current condition for the business, no, it does not have credit cards it's just running the regular business bank is running the regular banking business, there is no credit cards.
Sharat Chandra: So this will be your default assumption.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Do not learn, so my bad.
Sharat Chandra: you're going to say, do not know.
Sharat Chandra: This is also called as no action decision or no action condition.
Sharat Chandra: This is called is null.
Sharat Chandra: hypothesis hypothesis means.
Sharat Chandra: assumptions right.
Sharat Chandra: How about this as means assumption, so the thing null hypothesis.
Sharat Chandra: Now means no X you're not doing anything.
Sharat Chandra: If you don't do anything that that means your current condition is assumed to be good right or default condition of current current.
Sharat Chandra: So this is the not launch case.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: But there is a business decision that we need to take should I launch the credit card or not, if that question comes riskless.
Sharat Chandra: Decision is go with your current conditions that means don't do something different.
Sharat Chandra: But if you can find an evidence which says that if you launch credit card you're going to get benefited it basically means.
Sharat Chandra: If you take action.
Sharat Chandra: Right find evidence which says you take action and you get profitable in that case, obviously launch.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So the first condition is this in that business scenario, the alternate condition will be launched the grid.
Sharat Chandra: So it's called as alternate hypothesis.
Sharat Chandra: Take action condition alternate hypothesis So here we say launch, because that is the action that we are trying to evaluate.
Sharat Chandra: But in order to come to this, we need evidence.
Sharat Chandra: That evidence is what we were trying to calculate it the previous exam.
Sharat Chandra: So we need parameter details, but we not get parameter details so we'll take.
Sharat Chandra: Care sample and then calculated statistics.
Sharat Chandra: But based on right the decisions have to be taken a parameter, so we will first make these statements or make those conditions.
Sharat Chandra: Using parameters Okay, then we'll take sample than statistics, then using statistics.
Sharat Chandra: We will try to estimate parameters.
Sharat Chandra: and using that estimated parameters take decisions.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: No null hypothesis represent rise, which not H zero.
Sharat Chandra: alternate hypothesis represented as hitched a or you can also say which one.
Sharat Chandra: In a hypothesis an alternate hypothesis.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: But.
Sharat Chandra: The decisions are to be based on certain conditions in this example that condition is taken from this Roi assumption that we made right, we were assuming that this was the calculation that was done in $2,000 was the return on investment mark.
Sharat Chandra: So when you do this calculation.
Sharat Chandra: you'll get estimated parameters.
Sharat Chandra: range right interval.
Sharat Chandra: So using that interval we will take a decision, so the statement that we will have the conditions that will right here for null hypothesis is that if, on an average parameter remember the statements have to be a parameter if on an average.
Sharat Chandra: The conditions are that I will get or the business will get less than or equal to.
Sharat Chandra: $2,000.
Sharat Chandra: hey.
Sharat Chandra: As a as the voltage right average balance.
Sharat Chandra: Then we will say.
Sharat Chandra: Not much no action and probably say.
Sharat Chandra: That means you're not launching them.
Sharat Chandra: But if you find out an evidence which says the calculations are going to give you greater than $2,000, then you will take.
Sharat Chandra: Care guys.
Sharat Chandra: We are framing the conditions we are framing those scenarios.
Sharat Chandra: quantifying those and then using the calculations, using the results from population sample.
Sharat Chandra: We will.
Sharat Chandra: Try to conclude on what decision we have to take in a business condition.
Sharat Chandra: Clear.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes, sir.
Sharat Chandra: yeah we're still kind of looking at university to.
Rachana Kumbha: Be.
Sharat Chandra: If certain parts are always dead, if this condition is changing of that condition is changing we'll deal with that, but for now, this is basically a simple example of your hypothesis testing, which basically allows us to do the.
Sharat Chandra: inferential statistics for taking a business decision.
Right.
Sharat Chandra: Now.
Sharat Chandra: We have seen confusion matrix right, I mean the cost table.
Sharat Chandra: isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: it's a two by two table that we have see.
Sharat Chandra: Those similar lines.
Sharat Chandra: Here also, we have a two by two table.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, and that two by two table basically gives us insights on kind of decisions.
Sharat Chandra: and wrong decisions.
Sharat Chandra: Very simple.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the condition.
Sharat Chandra: I should not launch the business right, I mean I should not launch the credit isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: If I come to know that.
Sharat Chandra: My balance is going to be less than $2,000 which was like return on investment condition.
Sharat Chandra: Then I should not be launching my business right.
Sharat Chandra: isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: But in this case, if I go ahead and take action, what happens.
Sharat Chandra: yeah in this case, what will happen this.
Sharat Chandra: What happens.
Sharat Chandra: Is this not clear.
Sharat Chandra: Is it clear or not clear, the question.
Rachana Kumbha: So, can you repeat the questions.
up.
Sharat Chandra: So same business scenario.
Sharat Chandra: Okay now.
Sharat Chandra: The return on investment was saying $232,000 is what the average balance should be made by each customer.
Sharat Chandra: When you did the calculation you found that the business right is not generating balance with the customers are not maintaining the balance which is greater than.
Sharat Chandra: balances less than or equal to.
Sharat Chandra: So in this case I should not be launching my credit card right.
Rachana Kumbha: Yes.
Sharat Chandra: But if we take action, take action to launch in this case, it is only two decisions if I take action, then what will happen in this case.
Rachana Kumbha: going to Los yes.
Sharat Chandra: We are going into losses.
Sharat Chandra: Similarly, I come to know that.
Sharat Chandra: The balance is going to be greater than $2,000 that the people are maintaining.
Sharat Chandra: But rather than taking action i'm saying i'm too lazy not to take action.
Sharat Chandra: In this case, water.
Rachana Kumbha: We just remain where we are there's no growth.
Sharat Chandra: Exactly the chance of.
Sharat Chandra: Becoming profitable is.
Sharat Chandra: is reduced, we don't have the chance.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: So there are correct decisions are you may also take the wrong decision.
Sharat Chandra: Correct, so there are two by two tables basically here that that we can create for options or net.
Sharat Chandra: And that two by two table can be explained like this.
Sharat Chandra: If you are null hypothesis is true that means, if you would have launched your credit card business, you would have gone into losses that's the condition that means your balance would have been less than or equal to $2,000 imagine, this would be the case, this was the case in real.
Sharat Chandra: Ideally, you have to.
Sharat Chandra: frame to reject the null condition fail to reject means you are your don't have you're basically not having evidence.
Sharat Chandra: To do something different from what you are doing, currently.
Sharat Chandra: Good that scholars fail to reject the.
Sharat Chandra: null hypothesis, the current condition right.
Sharat Chandra: you're doing that anyways.
Sharat Chandra: If you have evidence, you can change that condition, but here we are saying I don't have evidence to change.
Sharat Chandra: Right, when this is the scenario, you will go with null hypothesis for me, this is the right decision this is represented as confidence.
Sharat Chandra: that the value is lying in that confidence region.
Sharat Chandra: But if.
Sharat Chandra: But if, in this case, if you reject the null hypothesis that you're saying that no I will go ahead and take business decision and launch the credit card.
Sharat Chandra: If this is the scenario, then it is going to be wrong decision isn't it.
Sharat Chandra: This is wrong decision.
Sharat Chandra: We call this particular decision is Type one error, and this is represented as and far representation.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: This is one scenario now as Jim you're going to get greater than $2,000 that means you're going to get profits actually.
Sharat Chandra: But you're too lazy to take action.
Sharat Chandra: You fail to reject null hypothesis you're saying that no i'm too lazy I don't believe this a lot want to launch.
Sharat Chandra: The credit card so you're doing whatever is the current condition you're repeating.
Sharat Chandra: This is Type two error.
Sharat Chandra: represented us beta.
Sharat Chandra: This is also wrong decision.
Sharat Chandra: And finally, you have the right decision here.
Sharat Chandra: It says see if it is greater than 2000 you go ahead and launch it.
Sharat Chandra: reject your current condition and do something different.
Paramesh Putha: With this is.
Sharat Chandra: nothing but alternatives.
Sharat Chandra: So this is called as power of the test because, ultimately, this scenario is helping us to do something different from what we are doing, but take some action.
Sharat Chandra: And it's called as power of the test.
Sharat Chandra: Now Type one and Type two, these are the names case there is no other game, the errors are called has Type one and Type two.
Sharat Chandra: Type one error is dangerous because you're inviting lawsuits.
Sharat Chandra: You should not be taking any action you should be risk free but here you're getting into this you're inviting this.
Sharat Chandra: Right.
Sharat Chandra: Basically, a type one error is a condition, where you're taking action when you should not be.
Sharat Chandra: Taking action when.
Sharat Chandra: not required.
Sharat Chandra: Or you can say.
Sharat Chandra: you're rejecting.
Sharat Chandra: It.
Sharat Chandra: Through null hypothesis, this is your Type one represented with and.
Sharat Chandra: This is not taking action just exactly opposite to not taking.
Sharat Chandra: Not taking action.
Sharat Chandra: when required.
Sharat Chandra: Not is coming here.
Sharat Chandra: that's your type do, or you can say you're failing to reject a false null hypothesis.
Sharat Chandra: cradle to reject.
Sharat Chandra: falls null hypothesis.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, this is called as Type two error, which is represent recipe.
Sharat Chandra: I found it clear.
Sharat Chandra: Okay now.
Sharat Chandra: Based on what we are trying to estimate the value that we are trying to estimate right there are different tests that we have to perform.
Sharat Chandra: What we have seen that the Z test and the T test that we have seen is.
Sharat Chandra: For continuous case, your why the output that you're trying to predict, if it is continuous then we follow these right flow charts.
Sharat Chandra: And we discussed with respect to.
Sharat Chandra: This.
Sharat Chandra: Z test.
Sharat Chandra: On Peters, this is what we discussed when Sigma was known we go through here Sigma is not known we go for.
Sharat Chandra: Similarly, we have various other test cases.
Sharat Chandra: Based on different conditions, but all these different test cases are.
Sharat Chandra: For bias continuous case.
Sharat Chandra: Similarly, we will also have.
Sharat Chandra: The test cases which are applied for.
Sharat Chandra: discrete cases as well, but discrete cases are always easier to calculate.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, remember that.
Sharat Chandra: You don't have complex complication when your output as discrete data, you simply take proportion as.
Sharat Chandra: Well, what proportion to proportion of high school.
Sharat Chandra: So these are basically different options of your inferential statistics, and these are not limited only to these, but you have a lot of other use cases also.
Sharat Chandra: But always remember when it is continuous, you will have a chat.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, various various various things have to be verified normality test has to be checked right.
Sharat Chandra: All those conditions have to be verified and if you follow that flow chart you will probably be able to.
Sharat Chandra: Go indie film.
Sharat Chandra: All right now for detailed discussion of these hypothesis testing, you can refer to the recommended videos.
Sharat Chandra: But yeah, as I mentioned, theoretically, the subject is more important because in interviews more advanced things that we focus now, these things are not being asked.
Sharat Chandra: Right yeah.
Sharat Chandra: So this is about your.
Sharat Chandra: hypothesis testing or inferential statistics.
Sharat Chandra: This concepts that we discussed right these concepts that we discussed here, especially your confidence interval nclb its central limit theorem.
Sharat Chandra: will form the base for doing the predictions, especially when you have output, which is American.
Sharat Chandra: In our next, yes, we will start with regression is.
Sharat Chandra: Now.
Sharat Chandra: So what exactly means regression if i'm I continue of output as continuous then.
Sharat Chandra: or put logic, we are to apply, and then we also have variations in regressions some of them are not so important, but yeah we still have those techniques.
Sharat Chandra: Right, and this is more like I but unique concept.
Sharat Chandra: And these are some of the advanced regression techniques that we have, which are not used anymore in the industry from statistical standpoint, we have those concepts.
Sharat Chandra: But was the regression, we will move to time series, and finally, we will go to black box or will do black box and then boogie times.
Sharat Chandra: So that's the future classes next week's guess we'll start with regression analysis.
Sharat Chandra: Mark your attendance now.
Sharat Chandra: yeah brushing know.
NOOR ELAHI: So I have a doubt related to the hierarchical clustering so if you'll, allow me to, so the so my screen then i'll so because, in theory, the input, it is not an issue, because I have a doubt there are so many.
Sharat Chandra: After hold on let everybody finished the attendance part, then we will.
populate.
Sharat Chandra: yeah please confirm once the attendance part is done everyone.
Rachana Kumbha: So we have class next week so.
Sharat Chandra: What happened next.
Rachana Kumbha: gen first.
Sharat Chandra: Oh okay i'm.
Sharat Chandra: Dan first I don't think there is any heavy planning on.
Sharat Chandra: It we.
Sharat Chandra: have not done.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay yeah.
Sharat Chandra: 31st is locked down.
Rachana Kumbha: let's confirm so 31st and first logged on.
Sharat Chandra: i'm i'm not sure i'm not a party person mean hearing that 31st.
Sharat Chandra: There will be no movement outside everything will be logged in so again, assuming that is the case okay.
Rachana Kumbha: So when can we come to officer.
Rachana Kumbha: Like for the classes offline class.
Sharat Chandra: yeah I mean today, nobody will be there in office, and yesterday it was on holiday so cleaning and all those things will not, and that is the reason today's classes offline or online next week, we will see you for our officers, a Min we have our first then we'll we'll kind of go in office.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, so I seem to be having class.
Sharat Chandra: I will confirm i'm not sure about.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, so okay so so please inform like if it is offline class.
Sharat Chandra: yeah i'll mention that both things.
Paramesh Putha: Please very much preferable select event.
Rachana Kumbha: So you and I also see listening.
Sharat Chandra: Now I mean I understand a distance so we'll we'll try to have it offline.
Rachana Kumbha: Okay, so.
Sharat Chandra: That would do this, there was no problem, but I mean I would have come, but the challenge was with respect to the office, it would have not been cleaned and all that so probably, we will not be able to stay.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, Sir celebrations, and all those things happen on okay.
that's Nice.
yeah.
Rachana Kumbha: i'm done so Okay, thank you.
neerupa chauhan: So.
neerupa chauhan: Okay.
Sharat Chandra: Everyone please confirm or change the screen now.
Sharat Chandra: Okay i'm changing the screen assuming everybody's done don't don't come back and say I did not do it.
Sharat Chandra: Alright, so let's change.
The stone.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: No shadows.
NOOR ELAHI: Its.
NOOR ELAHI: east, west airlines data.
Sharat Chandra: Okay.
Hello.
NOOR ELAHI: There is a column called smiles and then because, as far as I am, you know i've been gone through this that I, there is a zero, and then the value is 2024, so it is kind of a kind of these outlets are so how can I deal with.
NOOR ELAHI: The first.
Sharat Chandra: date of the water you think would be appropriate, did you understand what a square miles means.
Sharat Chandra: Why is.
NOOR ELAHI: ready.
NOOR ELAHI: Yes, a place.
NOOR ELAHI: Where my.
NOOR ELAHI: countenance polycom for top right.
Sharat Chandra: Now, what does that mean.
Sharat Chandra: Number of miles countered as qualifying top flight miles right So what does that actually mean did you understand that first.
NOOR ELAHI: Most likely that is a concern.
NOOR ELAHI: Right you.
Sharat Chandra: Know see the point is no, you have to do a thorough understanding of the business conditions and the data.
Sharat Chandra: If you would have understood what does square miles means.
Sharat Chandra: Though the data description is given, but did you research on that.
Sharat Chandra: Did you try to ask a question on why is 2024 value their wise $500 value and suddenly by zero.
Sharat Chandra: If you would have done that art read that research, then.
Sharat Chandra: You should not have this.
Sharat Chandra: question in the first place, you should be able to take a decision.
Sharat Chandra: it's all about understanding the data that part is not done properly.
Sharat Chandra: Business understanding data understanding are going to be very, very to vote there was you not know what to do, or to do.
NOOR ELAHI: But before that i'll have competing.
NOOR ELAHI: Yes, I said, it is not only.
NOOR ELAHI: Not only just you know put in a data into the Python and then do the analysis as we usually do.
NOOR ELAHI: And after that we'll get the clusters and whatever the yes, it is not like, but before that i'll have to understand you know, business and then the that given this column wise, what are the variables.
NOOR ELAHI: So that is why.
NOOR ELAHI: Because things.
Sharat Chandra: Do not every information.
Sharat Chandra: question.
Sharat Chandra: itself, there is something.
Sharat Chandra: Which is expected from your side on so.
Sharat Chandra: That person will have to do research try and understand that business scenario try and understand what those columns me.
Sharat Chandra: That planning.
NOOR ELAHI: part is see.
Every.
Sharat Chandra: Once you get the data doing in Python as one asked what what to do, why to do something that you have to research and dried find out so that part is missing.
Okay.
NOOR ELAHI: Apart from this.
NOOR ELAHI: or two incidences fine yeah.
Sharat Chandra: No, no i'm losing you again, there is a.
NOOR ELAHI: Can you hear me.
Sharat Chandra: I can hear you Hello yeah yeah.
NOOR ELAHI: Now I can hear whether.
NOOR ELAHI: There is a one column in.
NOOR ELAHI: The date column, so how can I deal with this date column date.
Sharat Chandra: you're asking me the answer that.
Sharat Chandra: New research.
Sharat Chandra: yeah.
OK.
NOOR ELAHI: OK, I will okay very good.
NOOR ELAHI: And then.
NOOR ELAHI: Once the computer okay fine yeah.
Sharat Chandra: If you're if you're done research, and if you still start then.
NOOR ELAHI: yeah I can help you but.
Sharat Chandra: without doing your part.
NOOR ELAHI: I have.
NOOR ELAHI: literally just gone through the columns and all that we.
NOOR ELAHI: think you.
Sharat Chandra: should try it out.
NOOR ELAHI: Let me.
Sharat Chandra: Then i'll get the next session.
NOOR ELAHI: I think.
NOOR ELAHI: It is the most important part, I think, because I met.
NOOR ELAHI: My.
NOOR ELAHI: First start tuning this but insulated material, I thought you know what i'm saying.
Sharat Chandra: Not but yeah practice you're going in the right way.
Sharat Chandra: Small.
Sharat Chandra: focus on that one partner.
NOOR ELAHI: You should be able to.
Sharat Chandra: Clean clean these things.
NOOR ELAHI: Okay okay that's good.
Sharat Chandra: Okay anyone else any other questions anyone stuck at any point.
NOOR ELAHI: One thing one more.
NOOR ELAHI: Time boundaries and to submit all the assignments.
Sharat Chandra: No, no there's no time.
NOOR ELAHI: Because being a working person, it is you know, either because i'm you know.
Sharat Chandra: yeah I understand that's that's the reason we're saying no law deadlines.
Sharat Chandra: But the condition is.
Sharat Chandra: Unless until you finish your assignments and submit them, you will not be eligible for project.
NOOR ELAHI: Oh.
NOOR ELAHI: yeah.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, all right so we'll wind up and.
Monali s: I have one question can.
Monali s: I be burning the petition we go for it, there is no values to be go go for implementation or.
Monali s: If there are outliers in particular corner, so we should go for media implementation eight.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, yes yeah.
Monali s: So, so how how it is, first, we should like my question is, first, we should go for the implementation on first we should go for it out loud treatment, and then I.
Sharat Chandra: guess there is.
Sharat Chandra: There is no.
Sharat Chandra: Fixed procedure there Okay, you can try it out due to either of these things.
Sharat Chandra: see it again boils down to the question on.
Sharat Chandra: Why outlier what outlier why missing values that the variance right So if you if you look at those cases, you will be able to take a decision on saying that Okay, I have three the outlier first and then we probably will do the calculation of 11 calculation for invitation.
Sharat Chandra: it's a logical decision, and there is no standard rule that you have to do this faster than.
OK OK OK.
Monali s: mostly by typing for speech and go for it go for the invitation hello, can you hear me.
Sharat Chandra: yeah I can hear you but.
Sharat Chandra: I don't know i'm not sure where you have redacted there's no standard like that okay so it's.
Monali s: it's like everything.
Monali s: isn't it is it.
Sharat Chandra: No it's the individual's choice, of course, which is getting influenced by the data and the business conditions okay good Thank you, Sir.
Sharat Chandra: Okay, then let's wind up and reconnect next week.
Sharat Chandra: Thank you everyone.